"x"
"It is only the microscopic equations that are supposed to be the same for all sorts of matter."
"Certain gestures, for instance, which indicate the three dimensional relations: fine shades of behaviour."
"The base structure for 'Every boy loves some girl' in the strong Zuleika sense is now in which the seeming noun phrase object 'some girl' is treated as subject of a verb phrase obtained by binding the pseudo variable noun phrase 'x which is the real object of 'loves'."
"See notes and and the discussion in the text of Pierre's logical consistency."
"One doubts on specific grounds."
"But if there can be any question at all of being mistaken here, then it must be possible to test whether I know it."
"(These concepts are based upon the ratio of the true statements to those which are false, Reichenbach, Wahrscheinlichkeitslogik (op."
"(I hope to elaborate elsewhere.)"
"This notion of 'tracking' is the key to Nozick's analysis of knowledge, and is closely connected with ideas that Nozick applies elsewhere in the book, notably to his analysis of free will."
"And yet plainly he does not think that it is so."
"My attitude towards him is an attitude towards a soul."
"But then if P(F) and P(G)"
"It seems that the reasoning may be generalized."
"Because they are put in terms of survival of continuants rather than relations of stages, they are more commonsensical than the philosophical desire for relatedness of one's present stage to future stages."
"This object' is a rigid designator."
"Of course, this question is wrongly put."
"Men certainly have the power to alter the world to a certain extent; and, so far as they do this, they certainly make true any beliefs, which are beliefs in the occurrence of these alterations."
"Philosophy of can answer the objection that, since experience ascriptions and neural state descriptions are admittedly never synonymous and since attributes are identical just in case they are predicated by synonymous expressions, therefore experiences and neural states cannot be identical attributes."
"It is a mark of a composite symbol that it has something in common with other symbols."
"How does it fare under the translation treatment I have prescribed?"
"Thus a particular colour which we see is an idea; so is a voice which we hear, and so on."
"In a generalized sense, all the intrinsic laws of change of appearance may be called laws of perspective."
"But that's a question which I don't wish to prejudge."
"(Note that in the verbal form I found it natural to use a conjunction of conditionals, though in the symbolic form I used a disjunction of conjunctions.)"
"There is another point, besides lack of universality and necessity, which it is important to realize as regards causes in the above sense, and that is the lack of uniqueness."
"Still, some cases do seem reasonably clear."
"But, once this has been explained, I think no harm can result from using the expression I directly apprehend A as a synonym for A direct apprehension of A occurs in my mind."
"I am not even confident that there is a genuine issue between the two."
"Yet this objection would not necessarily be more than an objection to Mr. Bradley's words; it would not necessarily be an objection to his meaning."
"Insensitive Causation Killing, so they say, is causing to die."
"Not every true statement which says that the statements of some class are true can count as a semantical rule otherwise all truths would be a a ytic in the sense of being true according to semantical rules."
"Kaplan says: Frege's treatment of oblique contexts is often described as one according to which expressions in such contexts denote their ordinary sense or meaning or intension"
"It is this wider sense that should be understood in the definition of convention."
"But, as against what we have just said, it is to be observed that the truth or falsehood of a belief always depends upon something which lies outside the belief itself."
"Thus publicity in sensations consists, not in having similar sensations, but in having more or less similar sensations correlated according to ascertainable laws."
"At the very end of of Principia in but also in the special cases following, et al., it is asserted that in truth functional contexts, if the existence and uniqueness conditions are fulfilled, then the scope of a single description included in that truth functional context does not matter:"
"And only within this system has a particular bit the value we give it."
"This is a permuting the time order:"
"Ordinarily the truth value of will be ascertainable through an enumeration of Nixon's Watergate related assertions, and an assessment of each for truth or falsity."
"Without philosophy thoughts are, as it were, cloudy and indistinct: its task is to make them clear and to give them sharp boundaries."
"Acta Philosophica Fennica,."
"Even if a physicist happened to observe such a process, he would be quite unable to reproduce it, and therefore would never be able to decide what had really happened in this case, and whether he may not have made an observational mistake."
"Nothing like that was in my interlocutor's mind (nor mine), and the example could have been given without a mirror (though Hume would have seen less of himself)."
"it is a member of the set."
"physical conceptual scheme simplifies our account of experience because of the way myriad scattered sense events come to be associated with single so called objcts; sti ll there is no likelihood that each sen tence about physical objects can actually be translated, however de ously and complexlv, into the phenomenalistic language."
"Or again, he makes 'mistakes"
"Depression, excitement, pain, are called mental states."
"We can say that a speaker is truthful in if he tries not to utter any sentence a of unless a would be true in on the occasion of his utterance of a."
"For this reason greatness of soul is not fostered by those philosophies which assimilate the universe to Man."
"By thus making a barrier between subject and object, such personal and private things become a prison to the intellect."
"A sentence either is or isn't analytic in a given language, and a language either is or isn't conventionally adopted by a given population."
"This completes our sketch of the two steps."
"Therefore it is understandable"
"And we require, finally, some short way of expressing the proposition, with regard to two things and, that is other than (or not identical with)."
"Not that the chain must be foreseeable."
"to reconCile my words with a sup posed nomma doctnne."
"The expectation of conformity ordinarily gives everyone a good reason why he himself should conform."
"If a boulder lies on the road, we know it for a boulder, but perhaps not for the one which has always lain there."
"According to my modal realism, there are countless unfortunates just like ourselves who rely on reasonable inductive methods and are sorely deceived."
"But this thing which he says it is sheer nonsense to say is the very thing which he himself had formerly said."
"In one sense this is obvious, because 'I' is not a name at all, but maybe something deeper is meant."
"Further, the resemblance between the case of descriptions and that of proper names (where presumably no one would be tempted to postulate an ambiguity)"
"(t p).p¯) t¯, or in words: 'If is derivable from, and if is false, then also is false'."
"If a sentence is true enough (according to our beliefs)"
"But now Henry clearly satisfies the third condition had a real barn not been there, he would not have believed there was a real barn in the field."
"And this mediate knowledge includes, of course, the statements of science."
"Then, on Nozick's understanding of the fourth condition, it does appear to be the case that if the conjunction had been true, then, using the method he actually uses, would have believed it."
"To every dual pair of relative modalities there corresponds a characteristic relation"
"So on the theory in question the term 'Peano', as we use it, really refers to now that you've heard it"
"A place where the notion proves relevant is in connection with my doctrine of the indeterminacy of transl ation."
"Whether Jupiter is too far away depends on the context, and not just because it depends on the physical position of the speaker or thinker, but also because it depends on the question under consideration."
"This is exactly what happened when I tried the card experiment on a fellow undergraduate, as I have mentioned above."
"(See The Paradoxes of Time Travel in this volume.)"
"If either one had not occurred, the other would have sufficed to cause."
"We may say, metaphorically, that it puts its objects in a certain order which we may indicate by means of the order of the words in the sentence."
"Then, if the barometer is working properly to measure the pressure, the R's must depend counterfactually on the P's."
"So of course someone other than the boss is coming."
"There is no longer an obstacle to quan tifying into 'O(x is odd),' 'O(x etc."
"The proposal has not been well received."
"To be is to be the value of a variable."
"Why isn't her use of 'Nancy' a case of naming?"
"The category of a meaning is the category found as the first component of its topmost node."
"Not only must a proposition of logic be irrefutable by any possible experience, but it must also be unconfirmable by any possible experience."
"The concept of truth for arithmetical statements is itself and this fact can be used to construct statements of the form of."
"I mean, how does he call to"
"These other arguments may, for all I shall say, be eminently ingenious and true; they are very many and various, and different Idealists use the most different arguments to prove the same most important conclusions."
"There is always the danger of wanting to find an expression's meaning by contemplating the expression itself, and the frame of mind in which one uses it, instead of always thinking of the practice."
"The present version was written on the basis of a transcript of the."
"And where, as disagreements show, there certainly is error on one side or the other, and reason, too, to suppose that the error is not easy to detect, I think we should spare no pains in investigating any source, from which it is even possible that the error may arise."
"But of course we do know it."
"For example, we may take a monochromatic beam from which a physical selection has been made by means of a very small slit"
"It even has a temporal duration."
"But it would seem that writing nowhere began as an attempt to represent speech it began as a direct pictorial representation of what was to be expressed."
"Rather, we can take his remarks as a partial indication of how he intends 'factual counterfactuals' to be understood, and, in particular, how he understands the fourth condition."
"The limit also makes itself manifest in the totality of elementary propositions."
"Without this device there would he no hope of handing language down the generations, nor any hope of breaking into newly discovered languages."
"This analysis of comparatives was suggested to me by David Kaplan."
"Whether it holds is one of the things that varies from one possible world to another."
"It is like assimilating two games."
"The word 'only' is only correct if we speak of (predictive) gambling systems; note to section below, and note to section of my Postscript probability distances of the elements from an absolute (initial) eleme are not excluded by my requirement."
"What is the proof that know something?"
"Yes, when one follows it up it seems extraordinarily scanty; but isn't this because one is taking no account of the history of this evidence?"
"I think my proposal has two minor advantages."
"it is none of these."
"Our knowledge of such relations, though it requires more power of abstraction than is required for perceiving the qualities of sense data, appears to be equally immediate, and (at least in some cases) equally indubitable."
"by and ') by as instances of a general scheme for translating English modal predications into sentences of counterpart theory with multiple counterpart relations."
"That, in short, even though they are not true, they nevertheless will be useful, not only for a time, but in the long run?"
"If, therefore, we also assert that it is part of the content of the sensation of blue, we assert that it has to the other parts (if any) of this whole the same relation which it has to the other parts of a blue flower"
"(The situation with the fourth condition is as before.)"
"For those who hold that my observations do give me a reason, have, I believe, universally supposed that the reason lies in a part of my observations, in which no such reason is to be found."
"All that we can know empirically is approximate and liable to exceptions; the exact laws that are assumed in physics are known to be somewhere near the truth, but are not known to be true just as they stand."
"I shall return shortly to the consideration of what discomfort and pleasure are in themselves; for the present, it is their connection with action and desire that concerns us."
"The faculty of being acquainted with things other than itself is the main characteristic of a mind."
"Twenty Five Are We Free to Break the Laws?"
"Some have more stock than others; some may even have only non voting stock."
"is an with extension A(B), the value of the function A for the argument."
"Rather than ruling out too much, its real problem is that it does not effectively exclude even those cases that it apparently excludes."
"( E/ G)V( G) eC(E/ G) V(G)"
"With the help of the variables, general sentences concerning the new entities can be for Ill lated.'"
"This is why my modified axiom of randomness, the requirement of 'absolute freedom', cannot be dispensed with."
"Accordingly, many combinations of the listed axioms are redundant.)"
"I am then asked What is a tiger?"
"The symmetry between verifiability and falsifiability accepted by classical inductivist logic suggests the belief that it must be possible to correlate with these 'undecidable' probability statements some scale of degrees of validity, something like 'continuous degrees of probability whose unattainable upper and lower limits are truth and falsity', to quote Reichenbach again."
"So far, then, one can say that that sentence stands for any statement It is employed as a prepositional schema, but only because it has the construction of an English sentence."
"It is my impression that something like this, and not a theory of modal continuants, was Kripke's intention."
"it is a matter of psychology that one sometimes sees, and sometimes hears it.)"
"It seems impossible to impose other purely mathematical conditions on the intended models (with the possible exception of (U), discussed below)."
"I will get my million if"
"(a) We have a proposition, consisting of interrelated images, and possibly partly of sensations; (b) we have the feeling of assent, which is presumably a complex sensation demanding analysis;"
"I am glad to think that Mr. Taylor has been in time to supply me with so definite a statement that this is the ultimate premiss of Idealism."
"It is better, I think, to take a more external and causal view of the relation of expectation to expected occurrence."
"I wanted to say, then"
"But if so, we would be very badly wrong about our world, so why should we not turn out to be wrong also"
"Thus if we try to regard its truth as known from experience, then the very same problems which occasioned its introduction will arise all over again."
"In Themes from Kaplan, ed."
"We are not at the moment searching for the correct scheme."
"Once we have this scheme in mind, I think we will find many instances of it."
"We have therefore here another respect in which the rationalists appear to have been in the right as against the empiricists, although, owing to the neglect or denial of relations, the deductions made by rationalists were, if anything, more apt to be mistaken than those made by empiricists."
"But its solution is that probability statements are nonempirical; that they are tautologies."
"At age he is still somewhat interested in fulfilling the ambitions he held at age but at age he cares nothing for those ambitions, and it is beginning to take an effort of will to summon up an interest in fulfilling his aspirations at age."
"We can say that someone is truthful in with respect to indicatives if he tries not to utter any indicative sentence of which is not true in truthful in with respect to imperatives if he tries to act in such a way as to make true in any imperative sentence of that is addressed to him by someone in a relation of authority to him; and so on for other moods."
"that I got the matter into proper focus and explained it as here."
"Always, if we see it at all (and do not, say, see it as something else)?"
"Pending a better understanding of counterfactuals, moreover, we had no way to fight seeming counterexamples to a counterfactual analysis."
"About the 'permitted' basic statements it says nothing."
"Va lues of variables."
"In particular, I find it plausible that a diachronic account of the evolution of language is likely to suggest that what was originally a mere speaker's reference may, if it becomes habitual in a community, evolve into a semantic reference."
"We must at least agree that many such equivalences hold, whether or not we regard them as somehow revealing underlying logical forms, and whether or not we think they are delivered wholesale in accordance with some nice general schema."
"How can we accept and reject )?"
"This is straightforward causation."
"Tying oneself to the mast is something of an analogue of the second strategy some might follow if forced to confront the evidence (the sirens)."
"And here again, it seems to me just possible that this may be a true account of what we are judging; only I cannot find the slightest sign that I am in fact aware of any such relation."
"Perhaps such quantification could be eliminated if it were always possible to replace the original (quantified) sentence with a sentence describing the activities of people."
"That means that: If Nixon had pressed the button, there would have been some minute chance of a quasimiracle."
"The cat wants a class of centered worlds that are centered on a cat safely on a roof."
"We can stick with verb phrase taking quantifier phrases of the category S/(S/N), restricted by constituent common nouns in most cases, and bind variables when necessary but only when necessary by means of a separate constituent called a binder: a certain sort of (S/N)/S that takes a sentence and makes an extensional verb phrase by binding a variable at all its free occurrences (if any) in the sentence."
"To do good to your enemies may, then, really be your duty; but it cannot, in the strict sense, be your duty not to have evil feelings towards them:"
"The appraisal of a statement as corroborated or as not corroborated is also a logical appraisal and therefore also timeless; for it asserts that a certain logical relation holds between a theoretical system and some system of accepted basic statements."
"an 'absolute zero' of composition, and the composition of any statement could then be expressed, as it were, in absolute degrees of composition."
"Thus every principle of simplicity urges us to adopt the natural view, that there really are objects other than ourselves and our sense data which have an existence not dependent upon our perceiving them."
"Who knows what will happen if I read a third one?"
"The strategy followed here combines two ideas."
"Subtler minds, taking the same precept as their starting point, come out with theories of Pegasus which are less pa tently misguided than McX's, and correspondingly more difficult to eradicate."
"I first heard this answer to the skeptic in question in a paper, or perhaps an informal presentation, given at Berkeley to a group of assistant professors there, by Thompson Clarke."
"All that he has done is to question whether I can know any external fact to be causally connected with anything which I observe; he would still allow that I may be able to know that future states of my own, or past states, which I have forgotten, are causally connected with those which I now observe or remember; and that I may know therefore, in some cases, what I shall experience in the future, or have experienced in the past but have now forgotten."
"I think one finds the report perfectly clear, and should not listen to philosophers who tell one otherwise."
"Consequently, if we think of the shape of a one parametric logarithmic curve (y logax) as lying anywhere in a plane, then it would have five parameters (if we allow for similarity transformations)."
"This, however, is a wrong comparison."
"It is like the relation: physical object sense impressions."
"Such inferences, which go beyond the observable facts, are to be avoided with the utmost care."
"In order to see how unclear the sense of this proposition is, consider its negation."
"Maybe the laws of nature are relevant without being intrinsic to the region (if some sort of regularity theory of lawhood is true) but nothing else is."
"The general terms relevant to it are not 'round,' 'dog,' and the like, but 'trait,' 'species,' and the like; and the relevant singular terms are not such as 'Sputn l' and 'Fido,' but such as 'roundness,' 'caninity,' 'dogkind."
"then any sentence true or false in Lb"
"It is therefore a sheer myth (though any number of refutations of my theory have been based upon this myth) that I ever proposed falsifiability as a criterion of meaning."
"yet, if they do, that can only be if when I think a thing to be wrong, and you think it not to be wrong, I mean by wrong the very same characteristic which you mean, and am thinking that the action possesses this characteristic while you are thinking it does not."
"The view admits, indeed, that I do know that when I hear certain words, somebody else has generally had thoughts more or less similar to those which I suppose him to have had: but it denies that my own observations could ever give me the least reason for supposing that this is so."
"Jaturalism is naturally associated with physicalism, or materialIsm."
"It is hard to find arguments to settle the question."
"(The changes of standard noted above, brought on by contextual pressures, are not the ones we want they cut across cases with and without apparent redundancy.)"
"I may grant him this; but we shall only be concerned with actual understandability, understandability in the actual world."
"The essential practical function of consciousness and thought is that they enable us to act with reference to what is distant in time or space, even though it is not at present stimulating our senses."
"But if the relation to the object is inferential and external, as I maintain, the difference between two thoughts may bear very little relation to the difference between their objects."
"Nevertheless, I can understand a piece of writing written in the past using 'now' or 'today', similarly to the way I can understand someone else's utterance of 'I'."
"For, whatever else we believe about counterfactual logic, surely counterfactuals imply the corresponding material conditionals; in particular, and do."
"People who follow these strategies are, after all, not uncommon at all, as I have mentioned in the paper."
"That is not a matter of law, so it could obtain in one and not the other of two worlds with exactly the same laws."
"And it would be nonsensical to say that, for if the name ceased to have meaning it would make no sense to say Mr. is dead."
"If you hire the thug just considered, you are not in literal truth a killer."
"But no doubt there may be arguments on the other side to which I have not done justice."
"We have said that a regularity is accidental if it cannot earn a place in the best system: if it is too weak to enter as an axiom, and also cannot be made to follow as a theorem unless by overloading the system with particular information."
"How does it come about that in spite of this I am inclined to see an interpretation in saying For a moment I was going to deceive him"
"The common interests which sustain conventions are as varied as the conventions themselves."
"We can make this plausible by saying that it is a rule of the school that a grade must be given for the course and that grades are always given on the basis of exams."
"I have some inclination to think, for example, that if someone says 'I believe she has gone to the movies,' the speaker is sometimes not simply reporting a mental state but explicitly expressing some degree of caution or hesitation, as opposed to the categorical statement without the prefix."
"One can ask, for example, how was it possible so much as to look for the trisection of the angle?."
"But in the case of the two views that all our true ideas are useful, and all our useful ideas true, I do not think this is so with Professor James."
"An alternative treatment of countercomparatives is available using double indexing."
"Indeed, without the nonminimal fixed points we could not have defined the intuitive difference between 'grounded' and 'paradoxical'."
", where special reference is made to Venn's The Logic of Chance."
"Very often our knowledge of the temporal relation of a remembered event to the present is inferred from its temporal relations to other remembered events."
"We cannot imagine it?"
"The Biblical story might have been a complete legend, or it might have been a substantially false account of a real person."
"The doctnne can deed he forrnulared with terllls rather than ltt'Tll nts the units."
"It is the right shape and the right size."
"There is an this notion at hand, a narrower sense of cogOltlve synonymy wh prefer hle for some pu rposes can in turn be derived."
"is one, or whether instead you believe as Quine do in a multitude of abstractersatz worlds, of which one is special in that it represents the one and only concrete world."
"We tend not to appreciate that most of the things, and most of the supposed traits of the so called world, are learned through language and believed in by a projection from language."
"(See, for example, his Reference and Generality, Cornell, pp.)"
"he as it were takes it into his own mind."
"Clearly each of these sentences should be false if its term is denotationless."
"It is only in sense knowledge that the stimulus and what is known are, with qualifications, identifiable."
"On the other hand, however, one does speak of the speed of thought; of how a thought goes through one's head like lightning; how problems become clear to us in a flash, and so on."
"(T) (total reflexivity): is reflexive on I. (W) (weak centering): is reflexive on I; for any and in I,."
"Someone can use 'I' in an indirect discourse attribution to someone else's thought about herself, even though the other person would not use 'I' or an equivalent expression, nor could she understand the expression as used by the subject in question in this case Dr. Lauben."
"But the attempts which have been made in this direction are not encouraging."
"Why can't, and bear the very same wanting to have relation to the very same property of surviving, so that they think the very same thought, and yet each thereby desire his own survival?"
"the propositional function preceding may be called the antecedent or the conditioning propositional function, and fx the consequent propositional function or the prediction; and the general implication, (x) fx), asserts that all values of which satisfy also satisfy."
"and this is a truism"
"Yet I think I have beliefs de re about Hume, and I'm certain that many of his contemporaries did."
"As Dr. Schiff has pointed out to me, it is possible to simplify this definition."
"And he correctly proves that the a posteriori probabilities of these hypotheses (relative to any given piece of evidence h) change in the same way as their a priori probabilities."
"There might be such a Martian; this opinion too seems pretty firm."
"It should be observed that, in all cases of general principles, particular instances, dealing with familiar things, are more evident than the general principle."
"note to section and text) between the theory and empirical statements."
"And when you ask me Don't you know, then, what I mean"
"It is hard to say which is true."
"It seems likely that the considerations in this paper will also be relevant to the concept of a supposed Specific' distinction for indefinite descriptions, as advocated by many linguists."
"And also the word this and a name often occupy the same position in a sentence."
"A proposition of mathematics does not express a thought."
"Once again, this will be true even if the method by which obtained his belief that fails Nozick's third condition, and even if it is completely irrational."
"We ask the meaning of an expression when what we want is a clearer or more familiar expression having the same meaning."
"It is essential to distinguish counterfactual and causal dependence from what I shall call nomic dependence."
"This question is phrased by analogy with the way Kant phrased his question 'How are synthetic a priori judgments possible?'"
"Thus, by an unconscious equivocation, we arrive at the conclusion that whatever we can apprehend must be in our minds."
"Professor James seems to hold, generally, that truth is mutable."
"(For here I am looking at learning German as adjusting a mechanism to respond to a certain kind of influence; and it may be all one to us whether someone else has learned the language, or was perhaps from birth constituted to react to sentences in German like a normal person who has learned German."
"This is the definition of a meter."
"I believe truly that a certain book is on a particular shelf about.m."
"What use is a rule to us here?"
"If there are de facto asymmetries of time, not written into the laws, they could be just what it takes to make the difference between a world to which the asymmetry of miracles applies and a world to which it does not; that is, between a world like (or ours) to which convergence is difficult and a Bennett world to which convergence is easy."
"I should like to say that I had experienced the 'because', and yet I do not want to call any phenomenon the experience of the because."
"So the counterfactual analysis of causation can apply to events of omission just as it does to all other events; and it is safe to say, as we ought to, that the effects which depend causally on Fred's omission are those which would not have occurred if he had taken the precautions."
"So, as already noted, there is always some chance that the frequency and the single case chance may differ as badly as you please."
"This sentence is not equivalent to the translation of any modal sentence."
"Vienna, The world is all that is the case."
"His actions cannot bring him news about which dependency hypothesis holds if he already is quite certain which one it is."
"Consider also the truth functional conditional that if history up to follows a certain course, then you will have a chance of becoming a monkey's uncle before the year is out."
"The advance of science is not due to the fact that more and more perceptual experiences accumulate in the course of time."
"and I wish to thank Mr. David."
"Meanwhile the problem of decidability seems to be growing ever more menacing."
"For him, propositions are sets of possible worlds."
"The statements (that is, one containing 'Moses' and the other containing a description typically associated with that name), which are supposed to have the same truth value in all possible worlds, are such that neither one entails the other in a possible world."
"Theoretical sentences grade off to observation sentences; observationality is a matter of degree, namely, the."
"For the prediction contained in my expression of intention (for example When it strikes lxi five"
"But perhaps it is divisible into two parts: one part that tells us something about chance, another that takes the concept of chance for granted and goes on to lay down a criterion of reasonableness for initial credence."
"Another misconception concerns the relation of rigidity to scope, which apparently I treated too briefly."
"If, however, we know of a very large number of cases in which A is followed by, and few or none in which the sequence fails, we shall in be justified in saying A causes, provided we do not attach to the notion of cause any of the metaphysical superstitions that have gathered about the word."
"Meanings are meanings how can we choose to construct them in one way rather than another?"
"has done such and such things, and bore the name in social life."
"Our second plan is first to collect together all the aspects which he presents successively to a given spectator, and then to do the same thing for the other spectators, thus forming a set of series instead of a series of sets."
"And this illustration serves to bring out very well both what is meant by saying of such a predicate as 'beautiful 'that it is intrinsic,' and why, if it is, it cannot be subjective."
"It is mere superstition to suppose that an appeal to experience can prove reality."
"The same goes for other attitudes to the extent that they consist partly of beliefs or desires or lacks thereof."
"Belief de dicto is self locating belief with respect to logical space; belief irreducibly"
"So the bulk term already has rather the hybrid air of the abstract singular term."
"The occurrence of the content of a thought constitutes the occurrence of the thought."
"Thus we disregard phenomena that might result if our language were sufficiently lacking in expressive power."
"Duhem (in La th orie physique, son objet et sa structure,"
"I should mention that Lewis also wishes to account for 'now' and the present tense, and for this reason regards it as a person stage that has an attitude de se."
"Suppose, in world resembles you closely in many respects, far more closely than anything else in does."
"Theories of some level of universality are proposed, and deductively tested; after that, theories of a higher level of universality are proposed, and in their turn tested with the help of those of the previous levels of universality, and so on."
", I think, had I argued as follows."
"And it is, I think, also plain that these things, which may be true at one time and false at another, may, in a sense, be ideas."
"Well, perhaps because it has a direct relationship with several things that have hitherto"
"It is certainly contingent because I (or whichever subject is involved in the relevant cogito) might never have been born, and it is a priori at least in the sense of not requiring any specific experience for its verification."
"And I hope I have convinced the reader that the standard account cannot be correct."
"But this can be misunderstood."
"He hints of appropriate restricions for the."
"Can we choose one at pleasure?"
"A secondary occurrence is where it is within the context, on the inside."
"The colour is that of which we are immediately aware, and the awareness itself is the sensation."
"Likewise, we may hope that some system will be so far out front that it will win no matter what the standards of simplicity, strength, and balance are, within reason."
"It is easy to see why this remark might encourage others to think that Frege has gone wrong in his analysis of 'I'."
"Attending to those particles of the partial ray A which after the collision travel in the direction we can calculate their momentum and also ie the momentum after collision of the particles with which they collided."
"The order why, that is nothing but sounds, ink marks."
"There the Humean predicament remained unaltered."
"In the olden days, we knew only of extensions."
"Since some pig is male, some pig (a different one) is female, some pig is pink (all over), and some pig is grey (all over), the existentially generic pig is simultaneously male, female, pink, and grey."
"One would like to say"
"The grammar of to fit to be able and to understand."
"That objection to frequentist analyses also turns out to be a consequence of the Principal Principle."
"So the senses of these phrases are not revelatory."
"Just as words are characterized by meaning, so beliefs are characterized by truth or falsehood."
"(Conceivably a physicist equipped with good instruments could predict a throw which other people could not predict.)"
"Was only one continuation possible in these circumstances?"
"The negated proposition can be negated again, and this in itself shows that what is negated is already a proposition, and"
"The form they are given is immaterial because their purpose is not translation of words or con structions but translation of coherent discourse; single words and con structions come up for attention only as means to that end."
"Richatd Montague, Pragmatics, in Contemporary Philosophy La philosophic contemporaine; Dana Scott, Advice on Modal Logic."
"Sure enough, I was guided here."
"That is absolutely certain, and to deny it is nonsense."
"And and really just say that a sufficiently reflective speaker grasps this theory of proper names."
"I have never seen these nerves, and even a specialist will only have observed them in a few specimens."
"Not the historical facts prior to, not the chances, not the laws of nature or the history to chance conditionals that say how those chances depend on the prior historical facts."
"Consider cylindrical combination locks for bicycle chains."
"I mean that way of being conscious which may be either true or false."
"And here I want to say, to begin with, that I feel extremely puzzled about the whole subject."
"If the importing of such a predicate as 'pegasizes' seems commit us to recognizing that there is a corresponding attribute, pegasizing, in Plato's hea Yen or in the minds of men, well and good."
"Now what Frege actually says is: If words are used in the ordinary way, what one intends to speak of is their Bedeutung."
"But at least we have plenty of that knowledge in fact, we have all that we could possibly use."
"Since in fact I make no special distinction in sense between 'Cicero' and 'Tully' to me, and probably to you as well, these are interchangeable names for the same man and since according to Frege and Russell, Jones's very affirmation of shows that for him there is some distinction of sense, Jones must therefore, on Frege Russellian views, use one of these names differently from me, and homophonic translation is illegitimate."
"Theoretical entities need not be invisible, intangible, etc.: consider the dark companions of stars."
"But the working quantum mechanics of radioactive decay, coherent solids, chemical bonding, and the like can somehow stand on its own."
"There's just too much true information of the requested sort to know or to tell."
"In this chapter we shall briefly consider the kind of way in which such reasoning is attempted, with a view to discovering whether we can hope that it may be valid."
"He quotes Gail Caldwell Stine's discussion, commenting principally"
"Conan Doyle pretended to be a doctor named Watson, engaged in publishing truthful memoirs of events he himself had witnessed."
"The Analyt a the Synthetlc"
"And there seems to be no clear criterion here."
"We might deliberately acquiesce the old unregenerate positing."
"In the second place, by having the quantifier itself do the binding of variables, we require there to be bound variables wherever there are quantifiers."
"And when that has happened, how am I to know that the word same describes what I recognize?"
"Not that it might have turned out either way as to Hesperus's being Phosphorus."
"If so, the possibility of acquiring experience cannot be used to define mind."
"It is easier to get at a feeling of unfamiliarity and of unnaturalness."
"There is also a branch process, diverging from the main process."
"For they see in the essence, not something that already lies open to view and that becomes surveyable by a rearrangement, but something that lies beneath the surface."
"Still he can fairly protest that the erratic behavior of contextually defined sin gular terms is no reflection on the meaningfulness of his primitive notation, including his open 'nee' sentences and his quantification of them."
"There are conventions of language so long as the regularity of truthfulness in a given language has even a single alternative."
"But if another parameter (the absolute term) is equated to zero, then this would mean a material reduction, namely the specification of a point of the ellipse."
"I regard the practicability of Waismann's proposal as significant."
"I am proposing then to ask: Which among the observations, which I make, and which (as we commonly suppose) are similar in kind to those which all or almost all men make, will give a reason for supposing that the existence of any of them is generally connected with the existence of certain kinds of perception or belief in other people?"
"In this formulation we see that natural laws might be compared to 'proscriptions' or 'prohibitions'."
"This sort of extreme attitude is stated, according to Hintikka, by Schopenhauer, and is further argued by Hintikka himself."
"If we could say that every man, when he judges a thing to be wrong, was making a statement about the feelings of all mankind, then when A says This is wrong and says No, it isn't, they would really be differing in opinion, since A would be saying that all mankind feel in a certain way towards the action, and would be saying that they don't."
"Quantification in Knowledge and Belief Contexts."
"This is usually called the 'inductive' direction; and it might be thought that the fact that physics advances in this 'inductive' direction could be used as an argument in favour of the inductive method."
"Roughly speaking, real things would be those that can cause sensations, those that have correlations of the sort that constitute physical objects."
"And the royal road runs beyond that thesis, for the described method of logicizing a mathematical discipline can be applied likewise to any non mathematical theory."
"But do you really not see that you were all the same disposed in a way which, though impalpable, is characteristic of guessing the time, like being surrounded by a characteristic atmosphere?"
"As Nozick defines the idea, one method may outweigh another with respect to one belief, but the situation may reverse in principle with respect to another belief."
"Are the words I am afraid a description of a state of mind?"
"To reason thus is, however, to fall into fallacy: a peculiarly philosophi cal fal lacy, and one whereof philosophers arc increasingly aware."
"And if we cannot prove this, we also cannot prove the unreality of space and time and matter and evil, for this is deduced by Hegel from the fragmentary and relational character of these things."
"Since I'm serious about the identity, we have not two states but one."
"But through a finite number of points we can always draw an unlimited number of curves of the most diverse form."
"All this glaringly contradicts the programme of expressing, in terms of a 'probability of hypotheses', the degree of reliability which we have to ascribe to a hypothesis in view of supporting or undermining evidence."
"(Every one of these possibilities must be part of the nature of the object.)"
"This is simply what searching, this is what finding, is like here."
"And the use of the words true and false may be among the constituent parts of this game; and if so it belongs to our concept 'proposition' but does not 'fit it."
"It is curious that conventionalists themselves have overlooked the conventional character of their own fundamental concept that of simplicity."
"If this system would fairly well satisfy your desire for survival or if your misgivings about it concern the body transplant rather than the fission"
"Poison taken on a full stomach passes more slowly into the blood, which slightly affects the time and manner of the death."
"Our derivative knowledge always depends upon some pure a priori knowledge and usually also depends upon some pure empirical knowledge."
"and in general Pt+n+ (A) Pt(A/"
": I have insisted that I should not have just those perceptions which I do have, unless some other person had certain feelings and perceptions which I suppose him to have."
"And in this way there is an alteration a gradual one in the use of the vocabulary of a language."
"I may, for instance, observe that when I perceive my hand suddenly catch hold of my foot in a particular way, this perception was preceded by a particular kind of feeling of pain."
"as true; a the adoption of these was seen merely to impose some meaning other than denial upon the sign"
"But to begin an answer, let me make some distinctions that I want to use."
"The Gedanke or thought expressed is its Sinn."
"The true hearted essentialist might well think me a false friend, a Quinean sceptic in essentialist's clothing. '"
"So much for the individual's mastery of language and lore; but what of the origins of all this in the race It would be irrational to suppose that those origins were rational."
"direct enumeration, in which case we can simply substitute for the variable the constants that are its values;."
"If anyone prefers, however, we could restate the Rationalization Principle in terms of the second sense of 'behavior':"
"how we know that a thing is white or a triangle."
"A singular term need not name to be significant."
"Whether philosophers will regard these methodological investigations as belonging to philosophy is, I fear, very doubtful, but this does not really matter much."
"Suppose infers (p or r) from, where the premise by hypothesis satisfies Nozick's third and fourth conditions."
"demonstration of his son's innocence."
"The sceptlc examp of the seeminglv bent stick owes Its 'fce to our nowledge that sticks do not bend by immersion; and examples oi ml,lgcs, a fter"
"Anyway, I can't really go into the problems of existence For a time the anti essentialist is winning."
"They come into being through the conventional adoption of a new sign, and they become true through conventional definition of that sign together with whatever made the corresponding sentences in the old notation true."
"What, I think, is clearly established, is that a man's actions and beliefs may be whollydominated by a desire of which he is quite unconscious, and which he indignantly repudiates when it is suggested to him."
"does not in the least follow that is true."
"You may feel certain that you count persons by identity, not by tensed identity."
"What corresponds to a determinate logical combination of signs is a determinate logical combination of their meanings."
"This rod is one yard long"
"Since is a lifetime, and hence according to Perry a continuant person, and are I related."
"The term the chance, at, of A's holding is a non rigid designator; chance being a matter of contingent fact, it designates different numbers at different worlds."
"It is also said that only propositions or statements can be true or false, but considerations about derivability relations."
"It would also be wrong to suppose that no single sentence of a theory has its separable empirical meaning."
"The thing to say about Martian pain is that the Martian is in pain because he is in a state that occupies the causal role of pain for Martians, whereas we are in pain because we are in a state that occupies the role of pain for us."
"The human body is the best picture of the human soul."
"Skyrms notes this, and that is why I think it must be the broad construal that he intends."
"Nor should we be misled by the picture which suggests that these phenomena came in sight 'on closer inspection'."
"The proposition that the number of planets is nine is noncontingent."
"Insofar, there can he no ground for saying which of two gla ringly unlike translations of individual sentences is right."
"For from this formula, Bernoulli's theorem and the other limit theorems of probability theory can be obtained in the usual way."
"We need not engage in psychological speculation about how those expectations are generated."
"things correspond one to one to their individual characters."
"The feeling of familiarity has all sorts of degrees, down to the stage where we dimly feel that we have seen a person before."
"Then the question of whether one knows in advance that there will be an exam (a hanging) becomes irrelevant."
"But we might just as well say that it is the statement 'the face showing the I will turn up' which has been assigned the probability of.'"
"I will, however, make a few preliminary remarks about it."
"There is thm reciprocal containment, though containment in fferent semes: epistemology in natu ral science and natural science in epistem logy."
"Together they comprise a pair."
"I think there is no genuine event that can be called Xanthippe's becoming a widow."
"Suppose I am seeing two coins, lying side by side, and am not perceiving them in any other way except by sight."
"I see someone pointing a gun and say I expect a report."
"Significantly, prior to his formulation of condition I, Nozick seems to discuss the situation concerning the formulation of when the method is making a deduction, which is in effect, and to conclude that, in spite of apparent difficulties, the consequences are satisfactory."
"(Compare a remark of Lewis Carroirs.)"
"Suppose that a certain language is used by a certain population."
"(b) Only a psychotic person believes of any tree in this forest that it is a spy."
"All that can be shown is that my approach to this particular Reichenbach, Erkenntnis."
"the whole of a baseball, except for a thin periph eral layer, can a rdly be said to constitute a sphere a foot or more in di ameter."
", therefore (p (q (known logical equivalence, which Nozick accepts), therefore (<U+2203>x)"
"Those theories which are on too high a level of universality, as it were (that is, too far removed from the level reached by the testable science of the day) give rise, perhaps, to a 'metaphysical system'."
"And note that it is no mere 'principle of charity' that is operating here."
"Probably it could be modified to fit another account of some or all of these particles in English."
"It expresses the metaphysical faith in the existence of regularities in our world (a faith which I share, and without which practical action is hardly conceivable)."
"We would be idly declaring there to be designata of the words, counterparts, shad ows, one apiece: danglers, serving only as honorary designata of expressions whose use as occasion sentences would continue as before."
"Blue is, for instance, the color of my socks, but blue is not the attribute predicated of things by saying they are the color of my socks, since."
"Thus the last paragraph of appendix is mistaken; and we cannot know, of the particle arriving at (see below) whether it did come from, or from somewhere else."
"From which it follows that men who use language are able to abstract or generalize their ideas."
"If this is so, the name, of course, doesn't really have any referent, it is pretended to have a referent; and if some view like Mill's is right, and the semantic function of naming is reference, then it follows that here we are only pretending to refer to a certain person and say something about him."
"If my opponent believes that my case is impossible because counterfeit chance is all the chance there can be, let him say so; but let him not reinterpret my case to fit his own doctrines."
"he cautiously, and correctly, confines himself to the weaker claim that the speaker spoke truly of the man to whom he referred."
"But what is the criterion for his guessing right?"
"Similarly, the contingent fact that Guarisanker is Everest amounts to the fact that the mountain viewed from such and such an angle in Nepal is the mountain viewed from such and such another angle in Tibet."
"I still think he uses the name 'Feynman' as a name for Feynman, But let's look at some of the cases where we do have a description to pick out someone uniquely."
"This is the view of."
"Thus in contrast to my degree of corroboration, Keynes's probability of a hypothesis increases with its a priori logical probability."
"If A is true, then our actual world is the closest Aworld, so A is true iff is."
"This is why I myself used the term 'confirmation' for a time in a number of my publications."
"Since the correspondence is one one, no information is lost and no surplus information is added."
"And this is the position you are in if you look for definitions corresponding to our concepts in aesthetics or ethics."
"The valuation rules are those of."
"But if this be so, what is it that I am judging, in all such cases, about the presented object, which is the real or ultimate subject of my judgment?"
"Bertrand Russell, Our Knowledge of the External World icago and Lon don: Open Court, ."
"Once we are used to it, it does not infect practice."
"Semon formulates two mnemic principles."
"Fragility of the effect is no better as a remedy for these cases of late preemption than it is as a remedy for redundant causation generally."
"while you smash the floodlights."
"It would be more charitable to apply the analyses not to the original story but instead to the minimally revised versions that make the hero's movements feasible by the means of travel that were available in."
"nwn) means that some of the most similar worlds where Nixon pressed the button are worlds where a quasi miracle happens; whereas wbp) means that all of them are worlds where it is possible for a quasi miracle to happen."
"Suppose someone were to point at the sky and come out with a number of unintelligible words."
"See also end of section."
"(Whether these universal statements have been tested and corroborated in other cases is of course quite a different question.)"
"One might tell someone this when one was explaining the meaning of the word intention to him."
"We might say, adhering to the standpoint of physics, that two aspects of different things belong to the same perspective when they are in the same place."
"He may, nevertheless, be happy."
"If you are fully rational your choices are governed entirely by your beliefs and desires so nothing can influence your choices except by influencing your beliefs and desires."
"Physical object are postulated entities which round out and simplify our account of the flux experience, just as the introduction of irrational umbers simplifies laws of arithmetic."
"The truth functional con ditional, :J or not or was called material implication in Principia and read indifferently as /' then and implies."
"Another question is this: given any subregion of the region in which an event occurs, is there a part of that event which occurs in that subregion?"
"We think we all know that there are no purple gnomes, but what if there really are a few, unknown to anyone except themselves, living in a secluded cabin near Loch Ness?"
"But we are not, in fact, asserting any such thing."
"It would now be no use to say:"
"So the supposed incompatibility had better be rejected."
"that I am making the mistake of which I have accused the positivists that of trying to kill metaphysics by calling it names."
"But at least on one reading it and do not name the same property, neither in our actual world nor in any other possible world."
"I reply that it's as if we'd said it this way"
"His secret marriage and devotion to his Catholic wife, when British law then forbade marriage between royalty and Catholics, strikes me as exemplary."
"I said above that these views, inasmuch as they make proper names rigid and transpare in modal contexts, favor Mill, but that the concession that proper names are not transparent in belief contexts appears to favor Frege."
"Besides, his extra rule departs from the standard form of his other rules."
"Thus I insist that I was able to raise my hand, and I acknowledge that a law would have been broken"
"There is probably material for the syntactician here as well as for the semanticist."
"isolation of one precise language, or of a sub cluster, out of the language cluster wherein we have a convention of truthfulness and trust."
"Perhaps there are or have been some theorists who believed that all talk of an object language must take place in a distinct metalanguage."
"Yet I think this tendency may be overridden when conformity to laws carries too high a cost in differences of particular fact."
"Bearing in mind that the Bernoulli frequency F(<U+2206>p) increases monotonically with the increasing length of the segment and that it decreases monotonically with decreasing, and that, therefore, the value of the relative frequency is comparatively rarely realized in short segments, we can also say: Bernoulli's theorem states that short segments of 'absolutely free' or chance like sequences will often show relatively great deviations from and thus relatively great <U+FB02>uctuations, while the longer segments, in most cases, will show smaller and smaller deviations from with increasing length."
"Since Burge makes a point of giving his own translations of all quotations from Frege, and seems to be suggesting that previous translators are unreliable, I must add that in this instance his translation is virtually identical with that of Max Black, as anyone who compares the two will see."
"If we believe that there is such a universal, we shall say that things are white because they have the quality of whiteness."
"Not that I accept the line of reasoning."
"Our reflections have favored the semantical side immensely, but they must not be allowed to bscure the fact that even as a semantical predi cate necessity can raise grave questions."
"But how I such proximity to be gauge The Idea may be re phra<U+FFFD>"
"I potheses do often stand as live options, ust as suscepti ble to experimen tal confirmation as their simpler alternatives; and in such cases still the maxim of simplicity continues to be applied in scientific practice, with as much intuitive plausibility as in other cases."
"The prisoner is supposed to know that the judge's decree that he is to be hanged will be fulfilled."
"But if you deny that Italy is boot shaped, pointing out the differences, what you have said requires high standards under which France is hexagonal is far from true enough."
"Let me mention very brie<U+FB02>y the following parallel situation (which may be best understood by reference to the discussion in Naming and Necessity)."
"If new sentences of were being decided at each level, we would eventually exhaust at some level and be unable to decide any more."
"This is perhaps closely related to the view that the way we refer to particular things is by a description."
"Only such anti scientific fundamentalists as Bryan cast aspersions on the effort.)"
"Metaphor is perhaps a handy category in which to accom modate transcendental concepts from a naturalist point of view."
"No other significant payoffs are at stake."
"what property it is that does belong to all true ideas, and to none but true ones, is still to seek."
"We have to know that on day she says 'I know the exam cannot be on the last day, so there is only one day left for the exam, the (N )th.'"
"Two physical 'points' a mark, say, on the measuring rod, and another on a body to be measured can at best be brought into close proximity; they cannot coincide, that is, coalesce into one point."
"For this reason I think that no observations of my own perceptions, feelings or thoughts can give me the slightest reason for supposing a connection between any of them and any feeling, perception, or thought in another person."
"It is as if someone thought that a good explanation of any current event had to be one that revealed the sinister doings of the."
"But we still require a means of symbolising the general proposition that every relational property is internal to any term which possesses it the proposition, namely, which was referred to on."
"The existence of the experimental method makes us think we have the means of solving the problems which trouble us; though problem and method pass one another by."
"The reasons which I shall give against this theory will be mainly derived from previous authors."
"Then we need not be selective about partitions, since we get the same answer, namely V(A), for all of them."
"Russell, of course, became a strong believer in facts (in 'The Philosophy of Logical Atomism')."
"Proceed to the world which starts out just like diverges from it by a small miracle, and thereafter evolves in accordance with the laws of."
"One wouldn't really cxpect a random scattering of atoms to produce a correct proof A subtle error, unknown through the decades, has still been unnoticed or perhaps not actually unnoticed, but the friends of Godel."
"If your present degrees of belief are reasonable or at least if they come from some reasonable initial credence function by conditionalizing on your total evidence then the Principal Principle applies."
"But there seems to me to be no reason why there should not be such an ultimate relation."
"There is another base structure with variable binding which we may read roughly as 'Every boy is something such that loves Zuleika'; it represents a different but equivalent meaning."
"The properties can be regarded as members of a corporation."
"But perhaps Nozick might try to save condition by arguing that the method is, rather, 'sizing up whether the person is an adult and, if the answer is affirmative, deducing that she is not four years old'"
"Then it is not a straight answer to the why question."
"And note that, intuitively, in the case where Henry is irrational, the belief that it is a barn is not justified."
"Fred's signalling for a left turn, Fred's signing of the cheque."
"One person might say A proposition is the most ordinary tiling in the world and another:"
"and I shall not use Perry's terminology.)"
"Postscript to Causal Decision Theory Reply to Rabinowicz"
"Its earlier parts cause its later parts, and its final part is the bodily movement."
"I argue conditionally since we cannot say whether the Principle of Saturation supports (and until we have formulated the Principle more precisely."
"Russell's Notion of Scope."
"Unlike my treatment of the first paradox, I shall merely state it, and not attempt to solve it because I discovered it!"
"and (in this volume)."
"Rather we ought to tell him that it didn't."
"We can be sure, he says, that anything we shall ever experience must show the characteristics affirmed of it in our a priori knowledge, because these characteristics are due to our own nature, and therefore nothing can ever come into our experience without acquiring these characteristics."
"The general compositional principles involved will be stated below."
"I doubt, however, that any such modification will affect any of the uses of the principle to be considered below."
"For something objective that we can get our teeth into we must go after the words."
"or I several times had the thought"
"In Wittgenstein 's figure, we climb the ladder and kick it away."
"This identification of the probability of events with the probability of statements may be better understood if we recall what was said in section."
"To specify the propositional content of Karl's beliefs and desires, we may specify how to express the believed or desired proposition, in some language, by a sentence in a context."
"You think the pavement is flat"
"Their reference varies from utterance to utterance the way that of a demonstrative docs."
"I have now sketched the nature of the connection between the bservations and the labyrinthine interior of sci entific theory."
"That does not follow."
"It is said that since whatever is, is experienced, and since some things are which are not experienced by the individual, these must at least form part of some experience."
"But perhaps I might nevertheless be unable to help myself, so that I kept on declaring I know"
"The answer to this question may well seem doubtful, seeing how little successful have been most attempts to define this concept Schlick, simplicity for one, gives a negative answer."
"(unpublished) Whitehead Lectures:"
"But in fact this is not the case."
"I do not wish to judge how far my efforts coincide with those of other philosophers."
"I cannot, however, now persuade myself that it is quite clear that I do perceive it to be so."
"Replacing each term by its definiens throughout the postulate of, we obtain an sentence which we may call the (definitionally) expanded postulate of."
"Such desires are too large to be achieved through our own efforts."
"And if so, have we any means of finding out what it is like?"
"This shows that the relationship between the convictions of the jurors and their verdict may vary greatly."
"=df if A is false at Then we may give the truth conditions for nonvacuous Stalnaker conditionals as follows:"
"It is as if it only needed to be hinted at; as if we already knew."
"The second mnemic principle, or Law of Ekphory, is as follows:"
"They all follow the bro,lli pattern of in direct quotation, says that fJ, as to attnhute to the sposition to utter the sentence in some mood."
"First, there may be more than one description, or even more than one occurrence of the same description."
"Although I agree that scientific knowledge is merely a development of ordinary knowledge or common sense knowledge, I contend that the most important and most exciting problems of epistemology must remain completely invisible to those who confine themselves to analysing ordinary or common sense knowledge or its formulation in ordinary language."
"All men look alike when they are a mile away, hence when we see a man a mile off we cannot tell what he will look like when he is only a yard away."
"For example, to use Grice's original case, is there any inclination to deny that a red object looks red (unless, of course, there really is some special reason for such a denial)?"
"But if you insist on repudiating possible worlds, much of my theory can be adapted to meet your needs."
"I do not wish to suggest that the way in which I have been defining perceptions is the only possible way, or even the best way."
"for certainly, the more absurd or exotic the beliefs imputed to a people, the more suspicious we arc entitled to be of the translations; the myth of the pre logical people marks only the extreme."
"There is therefore no a priori objection to a causal law in which part of the cause has ceased to exist."
"I would refuse to entertain any argument that tried to show the opposite!"
"Certainly they seem to satisfy the intuitive test mentioned above: although someone other than the."
"Unless and meet that requirement, nomic dependence in virtue of and does not imply counterfactual dependence, and, if there is counterfactual dependence anyway, does not explain it."
"My proposal could be called an elimination of theoretical terms, if you insist: for to define them is to show how to do without them."
"he very often means to suggest that you do not know it."
"One might imagine uttered at a time when Russell had inherited the Amberley title but not yet the other one."
"If I say this mountain didn't exist then"
"Second, it is not assumed that necessary and sufficient conditions for what kinds ofcollections There is some vagueness here."
"(We can think of such a as a full description of one possible or impossible way things might be if it were that, from the standpoint of.)"
"But Ramsev and Russell were talking only of what they called theoretical objects, as opposed to observahle objects."
"Suppose two children in a school, both of whom are asked What is six times nine?"
"If it 'her husband' is being used referentially, it is not clear what is meant by 'the statement.'. ."
"This feeling is fostered by an uncritical mentalistic theory of ideas: each sen tence and its admissible translations express an identical idea in the bi lingual's mind."
"I am not, of course, denying that the statement that the tune is there can also be given a quite different meaning for example, that I have a bit of paper on which it is written."
"when he says Time is unreal, though possibly be also means something else as well."
"Under these circumstances, surely general methodological principles favor the existing account."
"At any rate, we identify heat and are able to sense it by the fact that it produces in us a sensation of heat."
"For the third condition, notice that, by hypothesis, if and had been false, no matter which conjunct was responsible for the falsity of the conjunction, the experiential feature in question would have been absent."
", we mean something different by this expression from what we do on others?"
"I think this conclusion accords well with the fact that there seems to be no persuasive solution one way or the other to the old problem of inverted spectra."
"I notice this and shew it in my face."
"For we can take our actual standards as fixed, and apply them in asking what the laws would be in various counterfactual situations, including counterfactual situations in which people have different standards or in which there are no people at all."
"Even if this were all that he meant, it would be worth discussing."
"Words accompany thought for the most part anyway, and it is only as thoughts are expressed in words that we can specify them."
"Although, is I related to, which in turn is I related to yet, is not I related to."
"The argument from the existence of mnemic phenomena in physiology must therefore be allowed a certain weight against the hypothesis that mnemic causation is ultimate."
"Elementi di Filosofia del Linguaggio."
"Suppose, for example, one such name were 'Harry', and 'Harry' is the name of some particular sense datum."
"Strawson apparently requires that the speaker must know from whom he got his reference, so that he can say: 'By Godcl"
"Logicists, or real ists, are able on their assumptions to get Cantor's ascending orders of infinity; intuitionists are compelled to stop with the lowest order of infinity, and, as an indirect consequence, to abandon even some of the classical laws of real numbers.'"
"The actions constituting the cycle must not be purely mechanical, ie they must be bodily movements in whose causation the special properties of nervous tissue are involved."
"of this however, most of the attempts that one tries are open to counterexamples or other objections."
"So elusive is the difference between using an intensional language and using an extensional language that it can scarcely matter much which we do use."
"If Karpov checkmates Kasparov in the next game, probably the challenger will defeat the champion in the Berlin game, too."
"When from the sameness of stimulus meanings of 'Gavagai' and 'Rahbit' the linguist leaps to the conclusion that a gavagai is a whole enduring rabbit, he is ust taking for granted that the native is enough like us to have a brief general term for rabbits and no brief general term for rabbit stages or parts."
"Soames and Gazdar see a problem with cases where the consequent of a conditional seems to be presupposed."
"maybe the many scoreboards in many heads to the extent that they agree."
"Between memory image and sensation there is an intermediate experience concerning the immediate past."
"That does not bother me."
"Corresponding to the supposed duality of matter and mind, there are, in orthodox psychology, two ways of knowing what exists."
"emphasis in original)"
", for instance, might be the hearing of a certain word by one person, and the thought of that which we call the meaning of the word, in another person; and the generalisation to be justified might be that when one person hears a word, not spoken by himself, someone else has generally thought of the meaning of that word."
"that by quantifying past modal operators we commit ourselves to the view that an object, of itself and by whatever name or none, must be seen as having some of its traits necessarily and others contingently, despite the fact that the latter traits follow just as analytically from some ways of specifying the object as the former traits do from other ways of specifying it."
"Their existence is therefore contingent."
"One important case from Moore goes in another direction."
"What I want to insist on is that there is a great difference between them: that whereas rules of duty do directly assert of the idea of duty, in the sense in which to say that something is your duty implies that you can do it, that certain things are duties, the ideal rules do not assert this, but something different."
"This approach applies primarily to terms, or occasion sentences, rather than to standing sentences."
"(If the designator is ambiguous, or contains indexicals, demonstratives, or the like, we must speak of the semantic referent on a given occasion."
"But Perry's persons share stages only when all but one of the sharers is not determinable."
"For this reveals that a certain characteristic kind of re<U+FB02>exivity or self reference which is present in all logical paradoxes is absent from all the so called philosophical paradoxes even from Kant's antinomies."
"Will my generalisation, then, give me any reason to suppose that nevertheless my perception of his hand catching hold of his foot is preceded by a similar feeling of pain, not in me but in him?"
"(It would be as if without knowing how to play chess, I were to try and make out what the word mate meant by close observation of the last move of some game of chess."
"This view is confirmed by the fact that we only feel images to be unreal when we already know them to be images."
"The ignoramus uses Sherlock Holmes in its standard non rigid sense if he has picked it up (in the right way) from someone who knew the governing descriptions, or who picked it up from someone else who knew rhem, or. . ."
"Two Dogmas Empiricism definitioll; 'bachelor,' for example, is defined as unmarried man."
"The assertions following and precedi are an explicit counterexample to their claim, though there are many others, and this is not even the most important counterexample."
"It is a law of tendency, not a precise and invariable law such as those of physics aim at being."
"cannot seriously suppose that I am at this moment dreaming."
"For his death was, in fact, his death at."
"(This contains the ze germ of the idea that the will is not a phenomenon."
"See Chapter this volume, Appendices and."
"Hence my view is opposed to actualism:"
"a truth, let expressions occur vacuously in and let the statements, be the vacuous variants of."
"However, the claim that knowing implies knowing that one knows can certainly be doubted, and has been doubted by many philosophers."
"The behaviourists have challenged introspection even more vigorously than Knight Dunlap, and have gone so far as to deny the existence of images."
"Certain patterns of movement are physiologically impossible; hence, for example, I cannot see the schematic cube as two interpenetrating prisms."
"If belief were so regarded, we should find that, like acquaintance, it would not admit of the opposition of truth and falsehood, but would have to be always true."
"No doubt an explanation would help us recognize when these locutions occur, but the point is He writes, 'Does this show that the word 'lion' has two senses one meaning an animal, the other a picture of an animal?"
"Another variant: I write down a sentence which the other person cannot see."
"This knowledge scarcely rises into consciousness, except in a person who cannot read easily."
"as shorthand for what Nozick more properly calls 'failure of knowledge to be closed under known logical implication' (the 'known' here creates a problem, since Nozick must mean for his analysis of knowledge to apply to this case, too, but I do not go into it here, and let Nozick take the term 'known' to be understood simply intuitively for this case)."
"Awareness ceased to be demanded when we gave up trying to ustify our knowledge of the external world by rational reconstruction."
"'S Bernoulli's theorem, or the (fir 'law of great numbers' can be derived from the third binomial formula by purely arithmetical reasoning, under the assumption that we can take to the limit,."
"All other suppositions the Agnostic's, that something, at all events, does exist, as much as the Idealist's, that spirit does are, if we have no reason for believing in matter, as baseless as the grossest superstitions."
"But suppose I mean it while I am saying it?"
"The Physical Principles of the Quantum Theory, Chicago,."
"Various moves might be tried, but none that I can think of seem to me to be plausible."
"ee belovo,: Clu ptef uf the prescot volume. ."
"Tn moving over to propositional attitudes, as we did in we gain not only the graphic structural contrast between and but also a certain generality."
"(The Manifestation Principle should then be satisfied automatically; it is redundant, given the Principle of Truthfulness, the Rationalization Principle as applied to speech behavior, and the Triangle Principle.)"
"I suspect that the main motive for this expansion is simply the old notion that Peg asus, for example, must be because otherwise it would be nonsense to say even that he is not."
"We have to pass, as soon as we can, from the physical standpoint, which we have been hitherto adopting, to the standpoint of psychology, in which we make more use of introspection in the first of the three senses discussed in the preceding lecture."
"In regard to such knowledge, philosophical criticism does not require that we should abstain from belief."
"Suppose given a partition of logical space: a set of mutually exclusive and jointly exhaustive propositions."
"By definition, there can be no contradiction as long as Peano Arithmetic is consistent (the added propositional constants change nothing)."
"I have not investigated whether the semantic paradoxes present problems when directly applied to propositions."
"You manage to send me a message, and the message is I pushed red."
"Thus, for example, it is possible that life is one long dream, and that the outer world has only that degree of reality that the objects of dreams have; but although such a view does not seem inconsistent with known facts, there is no reason to prefer it to the common sense view, according to which other people and things do really exist."
"One kind of Bunzl event is a preempting cause in a case of late preemption."
"There can be no doubt that rival systems of analytical hypotheses can fit the totality of speech behavior to perfection, and can fit the total ity of dispositions to speech behavior as well, and still specify mutually incompatible translations of countless sentences insusceptible of inde pendent control."
"And then (let 'p' be any statement):"
"with a disjunct for everything Fred might do other than attending to the precautions."
"However, the way Frege continues the earlier passage, where he asserts that the time is part of the expression of the thought, does create some confusion: If someone wants to say today what he expressed yesterday using the word 'today', he will replace this word with 'yesterday'."
"The purely formal definition of truth and falsehood offers little difficulty."
"The so called languages discussed in the thesis are excessively simplified."
"(I consider this to be causal independence, but that's another story.)"
"Some paths of the tree will go on infinitely and never come to an end."
"(Equivalently: whenever j=, then if is accessible from so is.)"
"(I am not sure he would accept all my conclusions.)"
"In conclusion, I retained the absolute notion of an observation sen tence as simply a occasion sentence that commands the subj ect's imme diate assent, however fallible and revisa"
"Not only can you give a new kind of description of it, but noticing the second figure was a new visual experience."
"We do talk like that, however, when we are wondering at the way we can use a machine to symbolize a given way of moving since it can also move in quite different ways."
"Perhaps someone could see in whom the scene before the eyes causes non matching visual experience, provided that the failure of match is systematic and that the subject knows how to infer information about the scene before the eyes from this non matching visual experience."
"whatever which deserves to be called I or me or my mind and hence that nothing whatever is ever directly apprehended by me."
"At first sight we might imagine that knowledge could be defined as 'true belief'."
"Propositions and terms surrounded by are over ligned in original."
"But the deeper the Freudians delve into the underground regions of instinct, the further they travel from anything resembling conscious desire, and the less possible it becomes to believe that only positive self deception conceals from us that we really wish for things which are abhorrent to our explicit life."
"(Here I assume that it is meaningful for me to say I know what (e.g.) the word 'doubt' means and that this sentence indicates that the word doubt has a logical role.)"
"(In particular, contrary to what he suggests there, his formulation seems not to accord with Harman's requirement that 'the lemmas be true.')"
"That is, we are to consider what happens in other possible worlds to the things denoted here in our actual world by the terms and 'my body,' not what happens in other worlds to the things denoted there by those terms."
"The conditions of the Principal Principle are met."
"The several members of the class are assembled together in virtue of some similarity or common property."
"It's on the tip of my tongue are no more the expression of an experience than Now"
"Nevertheless', he writes ("
"There is one perfectly natural and intelligible sense in which a given relation may be said to modify a term which stands in that relation, namely, the sense in which we should say that, if, by putting a stick of sealing wax into a flame, we make the sealing wax melt, its relationship to the flame has modified the sealing wax."
"I other words: distinguish as you please between referential and non referential positions, but keep track, so as to treat each kind appropriately."
"Suppose we think of the entire history of the world as one big event."
"So, in this sense, the expression 'the inventor of bifocals' is nonrigid: Under certain circumstances one man would have been the inventor of bifocals; under other circumstances, another man would have."
"ogs learn to ask for things, their inarticulate way."
"The last sentence is a bit of an insult."
"p¯ (p q), which yields, by 'importation',"
"I might wonder whether astronomy is much of a science after all."
"If we start with the dependency hypotheses and define the imaging function as I did, it is immediate that worlds image alike"
"might have no more significance for us than"
"I am indebted here to conversations with Romina"
"No relations are purely external All relations qualify or modify or make a difference to the terms between which they hold No terms are independent of any of the relations in which they stand to other terms."
"The passive context, however, is sufficient for the nonidentities; people do not have to be desperately thinking or saying that Herb is not the boss as long as they"
"This definition seems to agree pretty well with our intuitions; but it somehow misses the crucial point; it would, for example, make certain parts (the asymptotic parts) of a hyperbola much simpler than a circle, etc."
"The one man might make an accurate drawing of the two faces, and the other notice in the drawing the likeness which the former did not see."
"The case is quite different for a genuine semantic ambiguity."
"History, the pattern of particular fact throughout the universe, chooses the candidate systems, and the standards of selection do the rest."
"In each case, we have a shared stage that is Irelated to two stages, and that are not I related to each other."
"following a simple assertion?"
"They comprise all those statements which arc instances of any the principles of the so called propositional calculus."
"Being nec essarily or possibly thus"
"Note the purely auxiliarv role of classes in all three examples."
"Cats might turn out to be automata, or strange demons (not his example) planted by a magician."
"Most important among them are the strictly universal statements which I have already discussed."
"The thesis and antithesis have been the property of rival schools; but in fact they are complementary essential ingredients in any adequate account either of languages or of language."
"An ohject must, to survive, meet this condition: if is a statement containing a referential occurrence of a name of, and"
"In any event, 'Sherlock Holmes does not exist' does look as if it has a usage under which it is true."
"(It is true that, when the physical world is assumed, it is possible to find physical causes for the sense data in dreams: a door banging, for instance, may cause us to dream of a naval engagement."
"If Collett had ever designed a Pacific. ."
"And our requirement of 'absolute freedom' does no more than exclude one particular type of regular sequence, though an important one."
"To deny this fact is to deny the self evident modal principle that what is entailed by a possibility must itself be possible."
"It would have been wrong to answer:"
"But if these aggregates are unified by a counterpart relation, this is simply a reclescnption of the vicarious identify just considered,)"
"Further, and are compatible (unless is itself impossible, in which case might as well be omitted from the range of hypotheses)."
"If the extension of consists of grounded sentences of arbitrary finite level, will be grounded with level."
", we eventually leave all the A worlds behind and find only worlds."
"(Not second order probabilities which suggests one kind of probability selfapplied.)"
"Appeal to hypothetical languages of an artificially simple kind could conceivably be useful in clarifying analyticity, if the mental or behavioral or cultural factors relevant to a nalyticity<U+FFFD>"
"Further, causal chains are dense."
"The grouping of global neural npnts by this relation of perceptual Two Dogmas in Retro<U+FFFD>pect similarity affords a sufficient theoretical basis, I have argued, for distin guishing the sensory modalities and the ious sensory qualities and Gestalten."
"The relation of resemblance, therefore, must be a true universal."
"The object meets the child's vision."
"This is to regard them as nonverifiable statements which can be put in the form: 'Of all points in space and time (or in all regions of space and time) it is true that. . .'."
"The logical indeterminacy of, makes for subtle equivocation in any context in which possible worlds other than our actual world are under discussion, either explicitly or implicitly."
"Here I have arrived at a foundation of all my beliefs."
"Now isn't it queer that I say that the word is is used with two different meanings (as the copula and as the sign of equality), and should not care to say that its meaning is its use; its use, that is, as the copula and the sign of equality?"
"However, there is a reason specific to Frege that makes me say that for him these principles give only a partial answer to the problem."
"Rigid Designation and the Contingent A Priori: The Meter Stick Revisited.'"
"(These are functions from indices whose values are themselves functions from indices.)"
"which at first I imitate, and then accept without imitating it."
"Moore's 'paradox of analysis' may be a related problem."
"It is natural to consider restrictions on the family of total extensions, motivated by intuitive properties of truth."
"where you touched my arm is right."
"The statement I am aware of a colour is assumed by Knight Dunlap to be known to be true, but he does not explain how it comes to be known."
"A <U+25A1><U+2192> df A (FS and and<U+25A1> C))."
"and so may the experient."
"And then he says that he is discontented with this solution and many other philosophers have been discontented with this solution, too, while still others have advocated it."
"The strict and clear rules of the logical structure of propositions appear to us as something in the background hidden in the medium of the understanding."
"I don't know why John Perry, in talking about this, wanted to emphasize someone who erroneously thought he was Hume, rather than a more standard example like Napoleon or Christ."
"Lavoisier makes experiments with substances in his laboratory and now he concludes that this and that takes place when there is burning."
"But I am not asking the question in this sense: it is plain that this is not its natural sense."
"Thus an ordinary, open textured, imprecise language is a sort of blur of precise languages"
"On this theory, then, tensed sentences are on Frege's view incomplete."
"In fairness to Sosa, I should add that he does present intuitively plausible special cases that he regards as always distinguished (exportable)."
"Isn't that just from earlier experience"
"Intuitively, Strawson and Frege are not always right about the gaps."
"I won't attempt to give an exegesis of Wittgenstein on these topics."
"ut, in the time table'and go to the station"
"Isn't this a fiction?"
"Actually, Putnam's argument shows that, as Nozick puts matters, I am in no position to think or formulate the beliefs stated in and therefore that the third condition does hold, at least in some vacuous manner."
"The following definitions are introduced provisionally, to be improved later in the course of our discussion of the dimensions of theories."
"This operation negates all the propositions in the right hand pair of brackets, and I call it the negation of those propositions."
"There is a general rule by means of which the musician can obtain the symphony from the score, and which makes it possible to derive the symphony from the groove on the gramophone record, and, using the first rule, to derive the score again."
"I will say, for the sake of brevity, the property of being a lion, though that is not strictly accurate, does In fact belong to some thing that there are things which have it, or, to put it in another way, that the conception of being a lion is a conception which does apply to some things that there are things which fall under it."
"Recent philosophy has emphasized this again and again."
"mean the man who did such and such and such and such'."
"Russell thinks that this is the most 'definite improvement' of Principia if it were to be rewritten"
"This is the proposition which I wish to suggest as giving the metaphorical meaning of modifies, of which we are in search."
"For, by increasing the modulus we supplement the stimulus meaning with some stimulations that were too long to count before."
"He may blame the real or apparent discrepancy in truth value between and simply on a queer behavior of contextually defined singular terms."
"Can we not now imagine further rules to explain this one?"
"Now then the question whether Cicero is schmidentical with Tully can arise, and ifit does arise the same problems will hold for this statement as were thought in the case of the original identity statement to give the belief that this was a relation between the names."
"Isn't this an hypothesis, which, as I belieye, is again and again completely confirmed?."
"Even a proposition like this one, that I am now living in England, has these two sides: it is not a mistake but on the other hand, what do I know of England?"
"This section does not contribute directly to answering the question which among the formally eligible properties of regions are events."
"I was interested in assessing and I found first that testability can be measured by 'logical' improbability (which corresponds exactly to Jeffreys' 'prior' improbability)."
"It might be that (for example) a particular tickle accompanied every one of my intentions."
"is thus the correct system to use if we want to drop accessibility restrictions."
"But is there only one way of taking the word colour or length"
"In the actual use of expressions we make detours, we go by sideroads."
"Call the function an imaging function, and call the image of on."
"Can we drive Wyman now to admit ting also a realm of unactualizable impossibles?"
"Which one is a meaning?"
"And his description will run quite differently."
"See also Kaplan's later discussion of the passage from Frege on pp."
"One may argue that translation problems like Pierre's will be blocked in this case, that 'Vesper' must be translated as 'Hesperus,' not as 'Phosphorus.'"
"But if any Frenchman who speaks no English can ever be said to associate exactly the properties of being the capital of England etc., with the name 'Londres,' Pierre in his monolingual period did so."
"After all, they are of a kind with the events that do actually occur."
"It would not even I the outline were fi led. '"
"When confronted with an arbitrary choice, the thing to do is not to make the choice."
"A picture depicts reality by representing a possibility of existence and non existence of states of affairs."
"It is the I relation, not identity itself, that we must compare with the relation."
"cX, characteristically enough, thinks there are."
"Frege concluded that 'the king of France in refers, in these contexts, to its ordinary sense; at any rate, if we wish to speak of 'reference' here, it cannot be to the non existent king."
"Then we may say that the convention whereby uses is a convention of truthfulness and trust in in serious communication situations."
": Donnellan's paper claims to give decisive objections both to Russell's theory of definite descriptions (taken as a theory about English) and to Strawson's."
"(Recall that Nozick, under the in<U+FB02>uence of Wittgenstein regards certain basic cases of knowledge as so central that they are not formed by any particular method."
"But there are still conventions of language; and there are still convention dependent features of language, differing from one alternative possible convention of language to another."
"The context shows what we are talking about, and that is what the referent is."
"What criteria are used in such a case for its having happened at that time?"
"I said that divergence from such a world as is easier than perfect convergence to it."
"I see a picture which represents a smiling face."
"Philosophers, on the other hand, have maintained often that matter is a mere fiction imagined by mind, and sometimes that mind is a mere property of a certain kind of matter."
"One could object, 'not this American', meaning not me."
"What of the partly rational agent, whom I have no wish to ignore?"
"From these questions we us distinguish the extern a question of the rea ity of the thing world itself."
"I is at this level that a palpable difference emerges between genuinely individuative use and the conterfeits lately imagined."
"Similar considerations apply to intuitions of sen tence synonymy and analyticity."
"df C(W'/ for any option A and worlds and W', where is the dependency hypothesis that holds at."
"Mr. Bradley must be holding that the words Time is real may have two different senses."
"It is still working and still hallucinating."
"For example, I wouldn't have had to give an example where I falsely convince someone that I never wrote on modal logic."
"Still, you admit they have meanings."
"We judge easily from the behaviour of an animal of a familiar kind whether it is hungry or thirsty, or pleased or displeased, or inquisitive or terrified."
"We have experience of past futures, but not of future futures, and the question is: Will future futures resemble past futures?"
"his behavior does not at all make it the case that there are four balls and his behavior is correct."
"I want to regard man here as an animal; as a primitive being to which one grants instinct but not ratiocination."
"as it were clutching my forehead."
"To whom does anyone say that he knows something?"
"Uehling, Jr., and Howard."
"If we were to ask anyone if he meant this he would probably say that he had not thought specially of the broomstick or specially of the brush at all."
"Don't regard a hesitant assertion as an assertion of hesitancy."
"It is easy to see that if is true at the language of a given level, it will remain true at the next level using the fact that is true of alone, false of everything else."
"But it does serve, inter alia, to defend them."
"Russell's Notion of Scope that his sentence is ambiguous between wanting a particular sloop and mere 'relief from slooplessness', a typical Quinean literary fillip, which could not be done with Russell's original, parallel example of the yacht."
"It seems that, if my account of theoretical terms is correct, the covering law analysis of scientific explanation is in need of a slight reformulation."
"In contrast, Kaplan recognizes that Church's system is the natural result of an attempt to avoid ambiguities."
"Heisenberg says about these exact calculations:. ."
"What if the commonplace de facto asymmetries between past and future break down?"
"When mathematics is recognized as capable of use, and as forming a integral part of general la nguage, the definition of mathematical notions terms of logic hecomes a task whose completion, if theoreti cally possi at all, calls for mathematical genius of a high order."
"And so far as I can see, there is no reason of any kind for asserting that they do, except the confusion which I have exposed."
"Perhaps it is possible to teach him to howl on particular occasions as if he were in pain, even when he is not."
"If the monkey instead types pages of jumbled letters, that is not at all quasimiraculous."
"The same goes for belief, since expectation is one kind of belief."
"fhe question of ontol ogy simply makes no sense until we get to something recognizable as quantification, or perhaps as a relative clause, with pronouns as potential variables."
"Also, I thought it necessary to insist on distinctness between events that stand in causal dependence, and by distinctness I meant more than nonidentity."
"Causal dependence is counterfactual dependence between distinct events."
"If it were that, then it would be that not."
"All of these propositions do constitute a protest against such views; and so far they might be all that Professor James meant to assert."
"One can be led in two directions by them: first, one can think that conclusion (vi) is correct, and so to know something means that no possible future evidence should lead me to change my mind."
"But what we really want is simply to take Red exists as the statement: the word red has a meaning."
"The various passages so far quoted are very important, because of their bearing upon our present aim the analysis of the epistemological concept of simplicity."
"The important issues, however, are common to the two views: the supposition that other possible worlds are like other dimensions of a more inclusive universe, that they can be given only by purely qualitative descriptions, and that therefore either the identity relation or the counterpart relation must be established in terms of qualitative resemblance."
"Second, rejection of the identity thesis does not imply acceptance of Cartesian dualism."
"One kind of view, which I think is very commonly held, is that it is something spiritual in its nature, or something whose nature is utterly unknown to us."
"And I should now regard the 'probability of statements' as one interpretation (the logical interpretation) among several possible interpretations of the formal calculus of probability, rather than as a truth frequency."
"There are stories about the exploits of super heroes from other planets, hobbits, fires and storms, vaporous"
"And I am not disputing its validity in any particular case."
"But there is a wide spread and complicated and diverse second miracle after."
"Granted, bestowal of meaning is conventional in the sense that it depends on convention: the meanings would have been different if the conventions of truthfulness and trust had been different."
"A general metatheorem will have the form of a tree of disambiguations depending on how we give a scope to this or that description."
"The reconstruction of in terms of 'Nec' has lent some clarity to the foundations of modal logic by embedding it in extensional logic, quotation, and a special predicate."
"What we have here is a foundation for all my action."
"How would the life of these people differ from ours?"
"But there had better also be a central and important sense in which Heimson and Hume believe alike."
"In distinguishing as I have between and value and utility I have followed the notation of Gibbard and Harper."
"In calling Tim's state at that moment knowledge, not just belief, facts about personally earlier but externally later moments were smuggled into consideration."
"and only if Smith was raking the leaves (whether or not Jones was)."
"Fred and Sam together are very much like a single person: a time traveler whose personal time starts at Sam's birth, goes on to Sam's destruction and Fred's creation, and goes on from there to Fred's death."
"We can know such facts as are asserted in books on history, geography or astronomy, or on politics, physics and chemistry, because such assertions may be founded on experience but we cannot know the greater part of the facts asserted in books of divinity or school metaphysics, because such assertions have no foundation in experience."
"We shall say that we have 'merely descriptive knowledge' of the so"
"What is it in music?"
"There are also mixed problems."
"I can easily imagine someone always doubting before he opened his front door whether an abyss did not yawn behind it, and making sure about it before he went through the door (and he might on some occasion prove to be right) but that does not make me doubt in the same case."
"If something is a continuant person according to this proposal, Perry calls it a lifetime."
"According to this definition, we know the meaning of a proposition when we know what would make it true and what would make it false, even if we do not know whether it is in fact true or false."
"We might therefore prefer to say that the terms keep the meanings they received at their first introduction."
"This expression is justified!"
"But might rather be an effect of e: one which could not, given the laws and some of the actual circumstances, have occurred otherwise than by being caused by."
"Such a characterization of logic and mathematics is perhaps neither empty nor uninteresting nor false."
", when it is neither perceived to be so, nor judged to be so."
"nothing but a mass of such assumptions will give me a reason for any such generalisation."
"The concept of 'seeing' makes a tangled impression."
"No centered world belongs to both classes."
"Hempel writes To the extent that a statement of individual causation leaves the relevant antecedent conditions, and thus also the requisite explanatory laws, indefinite"
"All numbers in logic stand in need of justification."
"And how do you know what you are to give yourself an exhibition of before you do it?"
"They give us no information at all about the existence of hens ("
"The simple form can often be used as a test for disbelief, provided the subject is a speaker with the modicum of logicality needed so that, at least after appropriate re<U+FB02>ection, he does What if a speaker assents to a sentence, but fails to assent to a synonymous assertion?"
"Likewise the word pain is a nonrigid designator."
"Every apparently separate piece of reality has, as it were, hooks which grapple it to the next piece; the next piece, in turn, has fresh hooks, and so on, until the whole universe is reconstructed."
"That tendency is abetted already by my point about shared empirical content, and also by my questioning the analytidsyn thetic distinction."
"perception or knowledge or belief by the analysis of the phrases 'I see' or 'I perceive', or 'I know', 'I believe', 'I hold that it is probable'; or perhaps by that of the word 'perhaps'."
"If you say the same thing to a child who does not yet know the word motor, but does know the other words you are using, you produce a feeling of anxiety and doubt you will have to point and say, There, that's a motor."
"Applying the principles of translation and disquotation to Mates's puzzle, however, involves many more complications than our present problem."
"Further, it should be an indiscernibility relation; not for all properties whatever, as identity is, but at least for some significant class of properties."
"There would be no feasible way to detect what had happened."
"But these mechanisms are only hypotheses, models designed to explain, to sum up, what you observe."
"Through its psychological effects, it is the cause of cognitions, partly by being itself a sign of things that are correlated with it, as eg sensations of sight and touch are correlated, and partly by giving rise to images and memories after the sensation is faded."
"When language games change, then there is a change in concepts, and with the concepts the meanings of words change."
"In the case of the labyrinth we might well say (before, after, or during your exploration) that your chance of reaching the center by noon is."
"Maybe there was a man whom Conan Doyle never heard of whose actual adventures chanced to fit the stories in every detail."
"I doubt the adequacy of Method mostly because it wastes the constraining power of the Principle of Truthfulness, but also because it fails to constrain the ascribed beliefs in Ao, as well as the desires, by means of the Rationalization Principle."
"Nevertheless, I think that the background illuminates the genesis of the puzzle, and it will enable me to draw one moral in the concluding section."
"So, it may be argued, being called 'Cicero,' is part of the sense of the name 'Cicero,' but not part of that of 'Tully.'"
"Descartes, the Anscombe and Geach translation was better suited to my purposes namely, discussing Anscombe's interpretation of Descartes (see below)."
"But if so, it is quite clear, I think, that what he means is inconsistent with its being true that Time exists or that there is such a thing as Time."
"So how do I square the supposition that the chance of heads is with the fact that it is zero or one, or anyway it does not deviate much from zero or one?"
"What if someone were to say In order to be able to sing a tune from memory one has to hear it in one's mind and sing from that."
"Not that I could describe the system of these convictions."
"writes: 'If we consider how infinitely problematic the concept of experience is. ."
"And those who say that all relations modify their terms always mean, I think, not merely that every different relation which a term has modifies it; but also that, where the relation is one which the term has to several different other terms, then, in the case of each of these terms, it is modified by the fact that it has the relation in question to that particular term."
"The case of expecting a cat shows one advantage of our policy of uniformly assigning prepositional objects."
"Any term that is either an term or a term may be called an term; so at the time is reduced, the relevant part of our scientific vocabulary is divided into the vocabulary and the vocabulary."
"But can we say he is in error?"
"Germ.: Athenaum Verlag, and Ballmer, Logical Grammar: with Special Consideration of Topics in Context Change (Amsterdam: North Holland,."
"This is at most a trivialization, in some sense, of de re belief, but not really a rejection of the notion."
"Everything could be put in terms of general truth conditions analogous to above, but to apply these general conditions the subject must be acquainted with the time of utterance, as in the quotation case and the application of."
"It may still be held that the conventions l) etc. are ohserved from the start, and that logic and mathematics thereby become conventional."
"Is it perfectly certain that beliefs, which are not true, have not often been useful to many men?"
"In particular, for the third condition, had been false, then the field would have contained either: nothing; or, some object or objects not resembling a barn; or, a counterfeit barn (or barn like object) palpably lacking one of the Fi's."
"Second thoughts are not yet relevant; they be come so only at a later stage, when scientific theory has begun to interre late observation sentences and generate conflict."
"A proposition is about a subject matter about history up to a certain time, for instance if and only if that proposition holds at both or neither of any two worlds that match perfectly with respect to that subject matter."
"And of course the Greeks didn't call their country anything like 'Greece'."
"of the two statements is equivalent to the singular existential statement 'There is a pointer at rest at the place k'."
"See especially the opposition between Boltzmann and Planck to which they refer in notes., and which can, I believe, be resolved by using the idea of a reproducible effect."
"When I nave explained what he ought to mean by saying that Time is unreal, it will be quite clear that this is something which is in fact incompatible with the truth of the propositions that Time is, or exists, or is a fact."
"But can we not sometimes speak of a darkening (for example) of our memory image?"
"Alternatively the 'complex' case he has a specific intention, which is distinct from his general intention, but which he believes, as a matter of fact, to determine the same object as the one determined by his general intention."
"Surely even someone who follows Nozick (and others mentioned before) in rejecting deductive closure in general cannot be very comfortable with this particular result."
"Likewise, similarities or differences of particular fact may be more or less weighty, depending on their nature and extent."
"(This can be done if we obtain the information that this or that hypothesis belonging to the sequence has been falsified.)"
"It was a near miss, failing because contingent facts got mixed up with the meanings."
"(the truth is I have never heard of this show, and there is some joke here, but I am not sure exactly what it is) (Kaplan,. ."
"Accuracy of response in regard to any particular kind of stimulus is improved by practice."
"But the question is not one of expediency"
"Thus understood, the term material thing certainly does stand for an important notion, which requires a name."
"I think he was offered consolation for the lack of the explanatory information he sought."
"Call a modality spherical iff for every world there is a sphere around such that the modality belongs at to all and only those propositions that hold throughout that sphere."
"I therefore believe de re of the one I am watching that is, myself that his pants are on fire."
"While planning that we will steal the plutonium and presupposing that we will not, we might take for granted neither that we will nor that we won't."
"Such a proposition might be eg"
"It is also true that the name 'Moses' might have had a referent, where that referent might not have been Moses."
"It also includes every detail no matter how hard it might be to discover of the structure of the coin, the tosser, other parts of the set up, and even anything nearby that might somehow intervene."
"Then do you still say that 'There are holes in the cheese' contains an unanalyzed shape predicate synonymous with."
"His basic problem, in the case of the 'eyes' example (and also 'I am alive' and 'I am sentient')"
"There is no event that is essentially a having of the existential property; a fortiori, no such event ever causes anything."
"He regards beliefs de re as beliefs based on acquaintance, and adds that belief de se is a par excellence case of belief de re, based on the highest form of acquaintance, namely, one's acquaintance with oneself."
"But any progression will serve th purpose; for we can say that a class has members by saying that its members arc in correlation with the members the progression up to not caring which progression it may be."
"The image is, in one sense, occurring now; and therefore we must find some other sense in which the past event occurred but the image does not occur."
"Let, and be terms purporting to name, respectively, a property, a relation, and a function; and let and be terms purporting to name individuals."
"The fact that Socrates precedes Plato is symbolized in English by the fact that the word precedes occurs between the words Socrates and Plato."
"I promised simplicity; I deliver functions from functions from functions to functions to functions from functions to functions."
"The logical par ticles 'and,' 'all,' etc. are learned only from sentential contexts."
"In this language they say, not He believes but He is inclined to say. ."
"But presumably our indicative conditional has a fixed interpretation, the same for speakers with different beliefs, and for one speaker before and after a change in his beliefs."
"Mary Smith gets the credit for noting it first,' using straight assertions."
"The one we do not prefer will probably seem to us a pale shadow of the one we prefer, and hardly worthy to be regarded as in any sense real."
"It is too reminiscent of Bacon's induction: too suggestive of his industrious gathering of the 'countless grapes, ripe and in season', from which he expected the wine of science to <U+FB02>ow: of his myth of a scientific method that starts from observation and experiment and then proceeds to theories."
"Russell's Notion of Scope solution to a problem."
"And I cannot help thinking that this is the case, in spite of the fact that it is difficult to see what intrinsic character can be shared in common by entities so different from one another as are patches of colour, sounds, smells, tastes, etc."
"Moreover, the way to this objective requires con;ideratlon of in guistics and logic along with psychology."
"Then, if we believed that he had seen it in the Times and also believed that it would not have been in the Times unless it had been true"
"suitable relation of acquaintance, and that is how I believe de re of Bruce that he is furry."
"I would like to thank Romina Padro´ for transcribing the original lecture and for helpful suggestions and discussions."
"Just as something may have all the properties by which we originally identified tigers and yet not be a tiger, so we might also fmd out"
"There is no reason why we should not, in this respect, make our philosophical opinions agree with what we necessarily believe at other times."
"We say this passage gives us a quite special feeling."
"None of these is a genuine case of causal dependence."
"statement about bodies arc too complex for finite axiomatization, however lengthy?"
"This made it important for me to rebut the theory, whether historically it was Frege's theory or not."
"If someone says 'I declare that the Earth is flat' (sincerely, not play acting etc.)"
"We are concerned here with language as the complex of present dispo sitions to verbal behavior, in which speakers of the same language have perforce come to resemble one another; not with the processes of acqui sition, whose variations from individual to individual it is to the interests of communication to efface (cf."
"But I perceive that some parts of the page are to the left of other parts, and some parts are above other parts."
"is the one allowing us to replace the word"
"Note that Kant's example, 'gold is a yellow metal', is not even a priori, and whatever necessity it has is established by scientific investigation; it is thw far from analytic in any sense."
"But see footnote of Naming and Necessity."
"It is customary to divide human movements into three classes, voluntary, reflex and mechanical."
"Whether or not, when I have the sensation of blue, my consciousness or awareness is thus blue, my introspection does not enable me to decide with certainty: I only see no reason for thinking that it is."
"You can kill by delayed action."
"At any rate, this is how Meinong is characterized by Russell in 'On Denoting'."
"Some philosophers would favor sentential objects, drawn either from natural language or from some hypothetical language of thought."
"It is at this point that we come to questions which seem to me to be really uncertain and difficult to answer."
"What sort of evidence is there?"
"Why not say the stronger thing that's almost as probable, not A?"
"Quine's 'Two Dogmas of Empiricism' is no doubt the most famous paper written in the second half."
"In the one case your belief is true, in the other false; in either case its truth or falsehood depends upon the actions of Columbus, not upon anything present or under your control."
"With the help of these concepts I will now examine von Mises's axiom of randomness the principle of the excluded gambling system in the hope of finding a weaker requirement which is nevertheless able to take its place."
"The regularity of truthfulness and trust in has alternatives."
"Another term used in philosophy is 'analytic'."
"In what sense can one call wishes, expectations, beliefs, etc."
"is heavier a. division of truths fro falsehoods in this supplementarydomain can probably be reproduced syntactical."
"Images, as opposed to sensations, can only be defined by their different causation: they are caused by association with a sensation, not by a stimulus external to the nervous system or perhaps one should say external to the brain, where the higher animals are concerned."
"The reason would be that, under the proposed analysis of chances, information about present chances is a disguised form of inadmissible information about future history to some extent, it reveals the outcomes of matters that are presently chancy."
"Set theory was straining at the leash of in tuition ever since Cantor discovered the higher finites; and with the added impetus of the paradoxes set theory the leash was snapped."
"I Well, can it happen to me, to intend to write to one person and in fact write to another?"
"The idea is that the probability of a hypothesis, since it is obviously a kind of probability of a statement, must come under the head of 'probability of statements' in the sense just defined."
"The traditional conception of cause and effect is one which modern science shows to be fundamentally erroneous, and"
"But in another case one might begin with the observation and then, when this is contradicted, counter by"
"a priori possihle pre cipitated the Critique of Pure Reason."
"If we leave the causation implicit, however, then we must take care that the counterfactuals from scene to visual experience are of the proper sort to comprise a causal dependence."
"But any two things share countlcss attri butes"
"(The individuals in question being not only Karl and others of his kind as they actually are, but also some of their might have been counterparts.)"
"Perhaps this is the place to discuss the view given the authority of."
"We have made no logical derivation at all."
"The situation is unchanged if we replace 'the greatest philosopher of antiquity' by any other (nonrigid) defmite description thought of as identifying Aristotle."
"If we want to prove some property of all triangles, we draw some one triangle and reason about it; but we can avoid making use of any property which it does not share with all other triangles, and thus, from our particular case, we obtain a general result."
"the uestion is meaningless<U+FFFD>as meaningless as asking which points in Ohio are starting points."
"These were the propositions I considered first, and I gave reasons for thinking that both are false."
"I should stress that I am not demanding or even advocating this usage, but mention it as a possibility to which I am sympathetic."
"Finally, I should say again that we are talking only about realizations that make Ttrue under a fixed interpretation of all of its vocabulary."
"Insofar as this temptation exists, it is salutary to para phrase quotations by the following expedient."
"Thus by taking logical probability into account the concept of corroboration is linked, even if perhaps only indirectly and loosely, with that of the probability of events."
"And I shall presently have something to say about this distinction between Time in one character and Time in another, because it might be thought that this distinction is the explanation of the difficulty as to Mr. Bradley's meaning, which I am going to point out."
"We might wish to count that as one kind of causation, based derivatively on counterfactual dependence even though there is no dependence between those two events themselves."
"Rmlism, as the word is used in connection with the mediaeval contro versy over universals, is the Platonic doctrine that universals or a bstract entities have being independently of the mind; the mind may discover them but cannot create them."
"In the 'simple' case, the speaker's referent is, by definition, the semantic referent."
"And if he says he hows it, that can only signify to me that he has been able to make sure, and hence that his arms are eg not still concealed by coverings and bandages, etc."
"The one thing we know about it is that it is not what it seems."
"Such failures are the.xception"
"But in this case the view that my judgment is merely about my own psychology is, I think, exposed to an obvious objection to which Westermarck's view that my judgments of moral obligation are about my own psychology was not exposed."
"(Perhaps not in the very hardest cases"
"that, in the case of any relation whatever, the kind of fact which we express by saying that a given term A has that relation to another term, or to a pair of terms and, or to three terms, and, and so on, in no case simply consists in the terms in question together with the relation."
"For Lewis, if I wonder what possible world I am in, it is as if I am wondering whether I am in Pennsylvania or West Virginia, as if I were traveling by car (though, of course, according to Lewis, at least in his ultimate view, such a trip between worlds is impossible)."
"Almost everyone else reacts to the counterfeit barn normally"
"a Rules Analyticity at first seemed most naturally definable by appeal to a realm of meanings."
"He must therefore reject my definition of the might counterfactual; and with it, the equivalences and, uncontroversial though they sound."
"Theoretical entities might better be called (as they sometimes are called) hypothetical entities."
"As if it were not enough for the movements in question to be empirically determined in advance, but they had to be really in a mysterious sense already present."
"And what exactly does this mean?"
"(Barcan's principle)"
"Since they are by products of a convention of truthfulness and trust, it is unnecessary to mention them separately in specifying the conditions under which a language is used by a population."
"See Donnellan, 'Reference and Definite Descriptions,'."
"I should like to say that what dawns here lasts only as long as I am occupied with the object in a particular way."
"This entanglement in our rules is what we want to understand"
"For we really see two different facts."
"Cogito, ergo sum would be regarded by most people as having a true premiss."
"The content or the testability (or the simplicity: see ch. vii) of a theory may have degrees, which may thus be said to relativize the idea of falsifiability (whose logical basis remains the modus tollens)."
"Still will in every such case be a statement which, under ordinary usage, is tnte and involves only the if idiom essentially; this follows from the observed conformity of (I) and to usage, together with the I,;,;"
"However, I do not necessarily endorse all of Putnam's conclusions."
"So now I must expect him to come."
"But as regards most of the specific doctrines of Christianity, for example, he seems to be clear that they are not so founded."
"Then context must be our guide."
"there must correspond a second particle, of which was de<U+FB02>ected at with the momentum in the calculable direction."
"Or you might instead say that an event exists at just those worlds where it occurs; or even that it does not fully exist at any world, since no world holds all of it."
"The hearer is aware that each person, including the hearer herself, uses 'I' to refer to herself by direct self acquaintance."
"But whether counterpart theory gives a counterintuitive answer depends on exactly how we put the question."
"We shall accordingly call any sentence of our language that is free of terms an sentence."
"for ordinary language Strawson is right about the truth gaps, but for a symbolic language they are an engineer's 'don't care' cases, fillable arbitrarily for technical convenience:"
"giving a function fx whose values for all values of are the propositions to be described;."
"Given that I can influence the temperature, do I make it cooler by turning the knob clockwise or counterclockwise?"
"the first example, numbers were identified with some of the cia es in one way or another."
"Consequently, most deviations in sufficiently long segments will become as small as we like; or in other words, great deviations will become as rare as we like."
"The sentence is too general."
"so let's put a in their place."
"Grant for the sake of argument that we have the closest world and the closest I world; that these are distinct (dual citizenships would be a gratuitous difference from actuality); and that these are the two finalists in the competition for closest A world."
"In illustrating the multitude of traces that the pressing would have left, and the difficulty of a perfect cover up, I relied on a certain amount of scientific knowledge that many people do not share."
"The falsification of a theory may be described in a similar way."
"Then we began to pay attention to languages in which extensions could depend on features of context."
"An example of this has been given above (cf."
"Only a body, or something very like a body, can resemble a body in respect to bodyhood and bodily traits enough to be its bodily counterpart."
"When you do it spontaneously without philosophical intentions the idea never crosses your mind that this impression of colour belongs only to you."
"Such conclusions will no doubt appear highly acceptable to the positivists."
"I hope it's not the other way around.)"
"I bought my table from the former occupant of my room; I could not buy his sense data, which died when he went away, but I could and did buy the confident expectation of more or less similar sense data."
"Quantification over classes figures also in other equally inconspicuous wavs, as witness Frege's,"
"We have seen (i) that Nozick's externalized conditions do not rule out cases where the subject is highly irrational, and that (ii) even when the subject is rational and justified in the intuitive sense (and also when he is not)"
"It is given the translation V/ Vy(W(i and ly( and Cya .D tj ?y) holds of every counterpart of a in any world or y(W/ and Iy( and"
"An Interdisciplinary Reader in Philosophy, Linguistics, Anthropology and Psychology, ed."
"The two alternative processes from the redundant causes taken singly through the feeble firing to the effect are cut short when the feeble firing does not occur."
"Give the second occurrence of the description outer scope and the first inner scope"
"In this connection, I only wish to say that in my view 'constituable' (i.e. empirically definable) terms do not exist at all."
"Alternatively, claim ambiguity: say that to be in pain in one sense is to be in pain according to the first theory,"
"Skepticism, Relevant Alternatives and Deductive Closure.'"
"A convention need not originate by convention that is, by agreement though many conventions do originate by agreement, and others could originate by agreement even if they actually do not."
"She makes various claims."
"We should turn out to live in a world that isn't habitable?"
"The verb of a proposition is not 'is true' or 'is false', as Frege thought: rather, that which 'is true' must already contain the verb."
"When we interpret we form hypotheses, which may prove false."
"Most likely you are not a very exact replica of me, and your choice is not a very reliable predictive process for mine."
"The relation of his concept of validity to that of probability is explained by Bolzano in op."
"We should ask whit is it like to make such a mistake as that?"
"We arc always ready to wonder about the meaning of a foreigner's remark with out to any one set of analytical hy potheses, indeed even in the absence of any; yet two sets of analytical hy potheses equally compati ble with all linguistic behavior can give con trary answers, unless the remark is of one of the limited sorts that can be translated without recourse to analytical hypotheses."
"If we refuse to ascribe the belief in London's pulchritude only after Pierre's move to England, we get the counterintuitive result that Pierre has changed his mind, and so on."
"It is a view which asserts that the half crown and the florin really did exist (in the natural sense) before I saw them; that they really are approximately circular (again in the natural sense); that, therefore, they are not composed of sensibles which I or others should directly apprehend under other conditions; and that therefore also neither these sensibles (even if such do now exist) nor those which I am now directly apprehending are in the place in which the coins are."
"(ed. Phdoso/,hy ience Toda."
"And there he'll stay, because Miriam would be sad if the cat went away."
"It is there to stay."
"The objective of my belief is an event which happened long ago, which I never saw and do not remember."
"lt is a logical proposition; for it does describe the conceptual (linguistic) situation."
"Moreover, it may be a local matter, holding near here but not in remote parts of time and space."
"Our venerable theory of the persistence and recurrence of bodies is characteristic of the use of reification in integrating our system of the world."
"It seems plausible that common terms for physical objcts come out better by such a standard than abstract terms."
"The reinterpretation of a facial expression can be compared to the reinterpretation of a chord in music, when we hear it as a modulation first into this, then into that key."
"It's also, it seems to me, a refutation of what is later stated by Hilbert and Bernays, who say that in both ordinary language and mathematics, we require that a description containing variables be everywhere defined, when it is used."
"Despite the truth of the appropriate counterfactuals, no event depends causally on itself; or on any other event from which it is not distinct."
"See Events in this volume.)"
"that no future evidence would lead me to change my mind?"
"A complication: we can distinguish primary and secondary senses of actual by asking what world actual refers to at a world in a context in which some other world is under consideration."
"But their desire to survive is satisfied; at least 's is, and,'s is no different."
"But let's keep to individual property pairs for the sake of simplicity.)"
"Of course, it is also not the view, held by some idealists, that all properties are essential, all relations internal."
"This presumably means that we cannot do anything with it."
"What are the constraints by which the problem of radical interpretation is to be solved?"
"Next I shall proceed to infinite sequences, ie to sequences of events which can be continued indefinitely, by the old method of introducing an axiom of convergence, since we need something like it for our discussion of the axiom of randomness."
"But in that case doesn't logic altogether disappear?"
"The philosopher's treatment of a question is like the treatment of an illness."
"As I have pointed out in section the assumption that the principle of induction is empirical leads to an infinite regress."
"There are, of course, what can be called characteristic experiences of pointing to (e.g.) the shape."
"Now this view is clearly unrealistic."
"If we choose to identify class with the class of all possible basic statements, then becomes the contradiction (c); and (corresponding to the empty class) may then denote the tautology (t)."
"But what is it all about?"
"Conversely, by the same token, no statement is immune to revision."
"Knowledge is a form of union of Self and not Self; like all union, it is impaired bydominion, and therefore by any attempt to force the universe into conformity with what we find in ourselves."
"That is why we speak habitually of prepositional attitudes."
"because names don't seem to be disguised descriptions how the Frege Russell view, or some suitable variant, can fail to be the case."
"But if, on the other hand, we believed that he had not seen it in the Times if, for instance, we had reason to believe that what he saw was not the statement which he made, but some other statement which he mistook for it; or if we believed that the kind of statement in question was one with regard to which there was no presumption that, being in the Times it would be true: in either of these cases we should, I think, feel that he had not answered our question."
"Similarly for any other sentence."
"I divide it into preemption and (symmetrical) overdetermination."
"See also my own distinction between fixing a reference and giving a meaning, as spelled out immediately below."
"Pigs that fly are parts of some worlds, or so I think, but they are not parts of anyersatz worlds."
"Let us assume that we have successfully banned these stratagems by our rules: we may now ask for a logical characterization of such falsifiable systems."
"Actually, I would like to claim something stronger: that the implicit definitions can be made explicit, and that the explicit definitions so obtained would be analytic."
"The world is my world: this is manifest in the fact that the limits of language (of that language which alone"
"Each of these methodological points contributes in its own peculiar way to the historical development of science as a process of step by step approximations."
"Ignorance of history has not the least tendency to make (most of)"
"It is easily shown that the set corresponds (in the obvious sense) to the minimal fixed point thus, it is closed under the converses of (i) and (ii)."
"In the first place, all the perceptions which I call perceptions of another person's body differ very considerably from any of those which I call perceptions of my own."
"The reason is that 'Hesperus' rigidly designates a certain heavenly body and 'the body in yonder position' does not a different body, or no body might have been in that position, but no other body might have been Hesperus (though another body, not Hesperus, might have been called 'Hesperus')."
"flut are we causing him to associate the word with the same Idea that we adults associate it with Do we adults all"
"Let's suppose we refer to the same heavenly body twice, as 'Hesperus' and 'Phosphorus'."
"As in simpler cases of early preemption, the firing of completes a chain of stepwise dependence: it depends on the firing of, and in turn the firing of depends on the firing of."
"What this person was acquainted with were certain sense data which he connected (rightly, we will suppose) with Bismarck's body."
"If it was in my mind, still it would not normally be there in some different word order."
"This present event, which is what is believed, I shall call the content of the belief."
"One does not grasp the sense of the whole, without grasping the sense of the parts."
"They are, he says, the only kind of propositions with regard to which we can have intuitive or demonstrative certainty."
"To be sure, one can speak of an interruption of understanding."
"This remark will become clearer when we discuss such things as the relation of expression to feeling, and similar topics."
"The problem begins with a well deserved complaint that all this about mental connectedness and continuity is too clever by half."
"By my senior year in berlin College, my extensionalism was full blown."
"And the meaning of a name is sometimes explained by pointing to its bearer."
"In like manner, we can collect all mnemic phenomena in living organisms under a single law, which contains what is hitherto verifiable in Semon's two laws."
"Shortly before, however, the spatio temporal region of perfect match comes to an end as and begin to diverge."
"Given the theses I took as my starting point, that can only be because there is no such event."
"; whence it follows that if matter were essentially something with which we could not become acquainted, matter would be something which we could not know to exist, and which could have for us no importance"
"In such a situation, is unobjectionable, though in a normal context it would be bizarre."
"Still, I do not want to say that just anything is true in the Holmes stories!"
"A exists is to say A is perceived, and who admit that in the case of other contents myself and my perceptions and thoughts, for example to say that these exist or are real, is to say of them something different from this."
"The use of alleged names, we have seen, is no commitment to corresponding entities."
"That is to say, the absence of the relational property intermediate between yellow and red, entails the property different in quality from orange."
"And secondly when he declares that they are spiritual, he means to include in that term quite a large number of different properties."
"How, then, are we to find any way of comparing the present image and the past sensation?"
"It is by no means clear that there are enough distinct senses to go around."
"(It is just as nonsensical to say, 'There is only one, as it would be to say, at o'clock equals .)"
"That is the kind of way it is done."
"It is a fact that quantum physicists have been eagerly participating in epistemological discussions."
"Other cases are less clear cut."
"p: All heavenly bodies which move in closed orbits move in circles: or more brie<U+FB02>y: All orbits of heavenly bodies are circles."
"It recognized the importance, so little noticed by inductivists, of the part played by our actions and operations, planned in accordance with conventions and deductive reasoning, in conducting and interpreting our scientific experiments."
"And the same goes mutatis mutandis for other attitudes, though I shall continue to discuss only the case of belief."
"What is more, there are events essentially specifiable as omissions."
"It is the peculiar mark of logical propositions that one can recognize that they are true from the symbol alone, and this fact contains in itself the whole philosophy of logic."
"Frank, Das Kausalgesetz und seine Grenzen,."
"So is any process whatever that could be disrupted by chance happenings nearby and infallible sealing off is not to be found."
"Such quantifications as: To believes that denounced Catiline Tom believes denounced of Cicero still count as nonsense, along with but such legitimate purposes as these might have served are served by and the like."
"When we say, 'Moses might not have existed and under certain circumstances would not have existed', we are saying something about a certain person, not about whether his deeds would have been accomplished under certain circumstances."
"Here I am discussing a subject who genuinely knows that."
"This was what Frege meant too, when he said that a word had meaning only as part of a sentence."
"We may say that a meaning is generated by a set of simple meanings iff every simple constituent of belongs to that set."
"I also recall the influence of early conversations with Albritton and with Peter Geach on the essentiality of origins."
"It was necessary, because, as I shall presently show, we do and must also use the word observation in a sense in which the assertion I observe A by no means includes the assertion"
"But I don't know whether it is money, or debts, or an empty"
"There are several ways to do this, given conventional translations of French into English."
"There are subsidiary arguments which, though they are based on more specialized problems, are also motivations for accepting the view."
"Let be a preempting cause of, and let be the preempted alternative, in a case of late preemption."
"In accordance with our three requisites, we have to seek a theory of truth which allows truth to have an opposite, namely falsehood, makes truth a property of beliefs, but makes it a property wholly dependent upon the relation of the beliefs to outside things."
"or again I can't be mistaken about that This I know seems to prescind from all grounds:"
"This model is called the canonical model for and is as follows:"
"If this was the length of a yard, it nevertheless will not be a necessary truth that the distance between the tip of his fmger and his nose should be a yard."
"Our argument is not flatly circular, but something like it."
"And, indeed, I think it is plain that no conclusive argument could possibly be advanced in favour of these positions."
"There is, however, a preliminary question which is rather less difficult, and that is: What do we mean by truth and falsehood?"
"The proposition and the word that logic deals with are supposed to be something pure and clear cut."
"Perhaps the very notion understanding, as applied to ingle standing sentences, simply cannot he explicated in terms of behavioural dispositions."
"He may respond by turning to face the object, or by fetching it."
"If I had gone by train, my having too little time could not have been part of the causal history of my so doing."
"There may be borderline cases."
"Thus one cannot say 'Red exists', because if there were no red it could not be spoken of at all."
"A convention of truthfulness and trust in might have as consequences other regularities which were conventions of language in their own right: specializations of the convention to certain special situations."
"They replace the analysis of vision or essence of philosophy, to be distilled and condensed into a definition."
"Under suitably different conventions, a different language would be used by."
"It is conversationally inappropriate, of course, to use the counterfactual construction unless one supposes the antecedent false; but this defect is not a matter of truth conditions."
"Actually we can proceed to answer this twofold question plausibly enough, in a general sort of way, without any very ela borate psychologizing."
"What exists in us consists of various factors, some open to external observation, others only visible to introspection."
"I said to my small son, 'Eighty two."
"I suspect that our authors thus put undue weight on the adjective phrases that ex press the properties; for the phrases could differ conspicuously even properties did not."
"This difficulty makes the intrasubjective stimulus synonymy of non observational occasion sentences less readily accessible to an alien linguist than the stimulus synonymy of ob servation sentences such as 'Gavaga and 'Rabbit."
"Finally, Nozick goes on to claim that his condition will almost always be satisfied for proofs by existential generalization or adding a disjunct."
"See Geach's discussion,.g., on."
"Translated as 'Thoughts' by Peter Geach and."
"I myself am a compatibilist but no determinist, hence I am obliged to rebut some objections against soft determinism but not others."
"The natm alization of epistemology, a have heen sketching it, is both a imitation and a liberation."
"must I not say the same of other people too?"
"That is a likely hypothesis, since it best explains what we know about linguistic competence."
"Is it not incomprehensible enough, that without saying a word, without making a note, he was able to Is calculating in the imagination in some sense less real than calculating on paper?"
"It would be tidy bur unnecessary to force all referentially opaque contexts into the quotationa mold; a lternatively we can recognize quotation as one referentially opaque context among many."
"So this thesis is correct, by definition."
"Therefore an implied event is, in the sense of this definition, essentially part of the implying event; though in another sense, the subclass sense, the implying event is part of the implied one."
"Examine the following description of a voluntary action: I form the decision to pull the bell at o'clock, and when it strikes my arm makes this movement."
"In recent discussion, many philosophers who have debated the meaningfulness of various categories of truths, have regarded them as identical."
"But second, also, think it is a distinction which he can perfectly well discard com patibly with the philosophical purpose of the paper under discussion."
"Wohlgemuth, loc. cit. pp."
"But I think that one complication ought to be added."
"That is to say: I no longer ask myself on seeing it"
"It is as if one were to say The king in chess is the piece that one can check."
"But then the sentence Excalibur has a sharp blade would contain a word that had no meaning, and hence the sentence would be nonsense."
"You may not like single case chances"
"The considerations I have in mind have to do with the existence of 'improper' definite descriptions, such as 'the table,' where uniquely specifying conditions are not contained in the description itself."
"An individual's innate similarity standards undergo mme revision, of course, even at the common sense level, indeed even at the subhuman level, through learning."
"Lkl iogllc whereby we fi a l's of I"
"In any counterfactual situation where the same geographical areas were filled with such a substance, they would not have been filled with gold."
"It is logically impossible that Tim should change the past by killing Grandfather in."
"Kant's 'thing in itself' is identical in definition with the physical object, namely, it is the cause of sensations."
"In the first place, it is too wide, because it is not enough that our premisses should be true they must also be known."
"it is true no matter how the arbitrary choices are made, super false iff"
"But if Weyl merely failed to see what is now 'easy to see' (according to Kneale), Jeffreys actually saw and still sees the very opposite: he attributes to the simpler law the greater prior probability instead of the greater prior improbability."
"If the standard process is defined as the process in which light is reflected or emitted, etc."
"And yet, it is just this incalculability that makes us conclude that the calculus of probability can be applied to these events."
"(I actually gave a seminar in this institution where I talked about this view for a couple of sessions.)"
"Philosophical knowledge, if what has been said above is true, does not differ essentially from scientific knowledge; there is no special source of wisdom which is open to philosophy but not to science, and the results obtained by philosophy are not radically different from those obtained from science."
"The question how it happens that a new idea occurs to a man whether it is a musical theme, a dramatic con<U+FB02>ict, or a scientific theory may be of great interest to empirical psychology; but it is irrelevant to the logical analysis of scientific knowledge."
"I am committed, as he is not, to the thesis that all explaining of particular events gives some or other sort of information about how they are caused; but when we see how many varieties of causal information there are, and how indirect they can get, perhaps this disagreement too will seem much diminished."
"And my simple analysis preserves not only the possibility of spatio temporal descriptions, but also the objective character of physics."
"But in spite of this objec This somewhat disparaging characterization fits perfectly my own views which I now submit to discussion in the 'Metaphysical Epilogue' of my Postscript, under the name of 'the propensity interpretation of probability'."
"Jiif object is then used to refer to that object, even in referring to counterfactual situations where the object doesn't have the properties in question."
"In retrospect I wish to make it clear that I have taken a conservative attitude to von Mises's four points (cf."
"If so, there is genuine redundancy."
"and he says, correctly, 'I think not.'"
"Theoretical entities are not entities of a special category, but entities we know of (at present) in a special way."
"Now the strategy can be used also on as criptions of helief, artificially this time, hy reconstruing belief as a relation between believers and sentences: thus Tom believes Cicero denounced Catiline or perhaps, for usage sticklers, Tom believes true Cicero denounced Catilin."
"On page (see the note), Nozick mentions some other rare exceptions."
"And, if I don't, then it seems really possible that this presented object really is identical with this part of the surface of this inkstand; since, when I judge, as in the cases supposed, that the surface in question is not so far as I can tell, perceptibly different from what it was, I might really be judging of the two sense data that they also were not, so far as I can tell, perceptibly different, the only difference between the two that is perceptible, being that the one seems to be of a certain size, shape or colour, and the other to be of a different and incompatible size, shape or colour."
"I believe that the realization of the complexity of a material unit, and its analysis into constituents analogous to sensations, is of the utmost importance to philosophy, and vital for any understanding of the relations between mind and matter, between our perceptions and the world which they perceive."
"And the answer may be given as a result of introspection and is often some such thing as: I didn't mean it very seriously I meant it half jokingly and so on."
"But phenomenal information and its special subject matter do not exist."
"For, as we have seen above, Pierre is in no position to draw ordinary logical consequences from the conjoint set of what, when we consider him separately as a speaker of English and as a speaker of French, we would call his beliefs."
"What now of the empiricist who would grant certainty to logic, and to the whole of mathematics, and yet would make a clean sweep of other non empirical theories under the name of metaphysics"
"Such things occur in this very field of scholarship."
"Russell acknowledged that his views were incompatible with our naive reactions (though the rigidity issue was not mentioned), but powerful philosophical arguments seemed to him to compel adoption of his theory."
"Here we are all in this room."
"It would have made as little sense for me to say Now I am seeing it as."
"Such meanings might also be represented, after a more elaborate transformational derivation, by non declaratives."
"and as ifthey were rigid, the conflict being muddled over by thinking of the corresponding objects as 'contingently identical'."
"You might manage to keep your patient alive until when otherwise he would have died at."
"So as to avoid misunderstanding, let me emphasize that I am of course not asserting that Russell's notion of scope solves Quine's problem of 'essentialism'; what it does show, especially in conjunction with modern model theoretic approaches to modal logic, is that quantified modal logic need not deny the truth of all instances of (x)(y)(x Fx Fy), nor of all instances of '(x) (Gx Ga)'"
"(Assume that is linguistically homogeneous.)"
"Th ese arc the idioms most stuhbornly at variance with scientific patterns."
"If one of my names were used only very rarely, then it might happen that I did not know it."
"(See also notes and below.)"
"Waismann (Erkenntnis pp."
"This question would lead us back to the neo Humean thesis discussed in Section.)"
"A regularity of uniform untruthfulness and non trust in a language can be redescribed as a regularity of truthfulness and trust in a different language anti complementary to."
"I shall give up other things but not this."
"He evidently thinks that, in asserting this, he is asserting something which is not mere nonsense; and he certainly would not have chosen this way of expressing what he means, unless he had supposed that what he is here asserting about Time is incompatible with what people often mean when they say Time is real."
"Evidently our tahles are waxing."
"They are deep disquietudes; their roots are as deep in us as the forms of our language and their significance is as great as the importance of our language."
"I refrain from settling certain questions of detail."
"For any halfway reasonable statement will tend to create a context that (partially) resolves the vagueness of the counterpart relation in such a way as to make that statement true in that context."
"If someone tells me his name is."
"they have some event as a common part; an atomic event is one that has no events except itself as parts; an event is the mereological sum of events. ."
"But would still have been there to interfere with"
"In Realism and Reason: Philosophical Papers, Volume."
"Still the deduction and checking of observation Cltegoricals is the es sence, surely, of the experimental method, the hypothetico deductive method, the method, in Popper's words, of conj ecture and refutation."
"A belief such as I spoke of before the belief in eternal hell is an instance."
"where we might unmisleadingly have used such and such other fa miliar phrasing."
"Now what of classes or attributes of physical objcts, in turn A pla tonistic ontology of this sort is, from the point of view of a strictly physicalistic conceptual scheme, as much a myth as that physicalistic conceptual scheme itself is for phenomenalism."
"And why are the phenomena regarding proper names"
"An implicit subscript would cause no trouble if we were sure of the 'level' of Nixon's utterances; we could then cover them all, in the utterance of or even of the stronger All of Nixon's utterances about Watergate are false."
"What Frege is saying about the way everyone is presented to himself seems to me not to be at all unfamiliar."
"What can he have meant?"
"Terminological actualism will suit a philosopher who accepts common opinion as to what there is."
"A lesser objection still applies: the simplification only works for extensional verb phrases."
"Consequently, the conjunction tw simplifies to tw."
"Let us speculate on the mechanism of this new move."
": Harvard iver ,lry Press, CritiCisms that have henefited a bove,('erum of the pre.;; nr l''!say lOci cnsulIlg port ns, am grateful to Burton Drchcn."
"For we have seen that Bernoulli's theorem follows immediately from the binomial formula; moreover, I have shown that the first binomial formula can be derived for finite sequences and so, of course, without any axiom of convergence."
"These properties, then, being character tic of gold and not true of iron pyrites, show that the fool's gold is not in fact gold."
"Even in the a bsence of distinctive traits we will correctly concatenate momentary canine manifestations as stages of the same dog as long as we keep watching."
"long measured in the opposite direction?)"
"I will go just as wrong if I ignore such worlds."
"If beeches and elms will not serve, better pairs of ringers exist that cannot be told apart except by an expert.)"
"it's a rule of the school."
"Readers must have been greatly misled for a long time!"
"To the malll theme of this paragraph"
"If so, yields an auxiliary reduction premise for T; hence together with the definitions of the state names,."
"The action is directly within the control of my will, whereas the feeling is not."
"There are no more to know."
"We could even quantify over modalities, these being understood as certain properties of propositions."
"This bound, a working ,tandard of what to count as specious prescnt, I ca the modulus of stimulation."
"Most people, in thinking about punishment, have had no more need to hide their vindictive impulses from themselves than they have had to hide the exponential theorem."
"episodes similM to the old clattering episode engendered expectation of episodes similar to the old dinner episode."
"Actually, the phrase occurs in connection with his view that knowledge is not closed under universal instantiation."
"In language we have different kinds of word."
"Alternatively, suppose that it rained the previous night, leaving a visible smudge on the real barn."
"In this view a single cognitive occurrence contains both content and object, the content being essentially mental, while the object is physical except in introspection and abstract thought."
"There are its crural features on the one hand and its maxillary features the other."
"I do not think the truth is quite so picturesque as this."
"all the material conditionals A A. ."
"It would seem that, in such cases, the feeling of belief exists unattached, without its usual relation to a content believed, just as the feeling of familiarity may sometimes occur without being related to any definite familiar object."
"We could take the two extensions of 'this' on the two occasions of its utterance and use these, rather than the fixed intension of 'this', to determine the truth value of the sentence."
"It is certainly permissible to use the term 'universal name' as a synonym for 'name of a class', and 'individual name' as a synonym for 'name of an element'; but there is little to be said for this usage."
"See Word and Ob/eet,."
"Our view is that the concept of pain, or indeed of any other experience or mental state, is the concept of a state that occupies a certain causal role, a state with certain typical causes and effects."
"If we watch their behaviour we find it intelligible, it seems 'logical'."
"They say, for example, that I should have given a particular answer then, if I had been asked."
"They need their own assumptions which must be specifically statistical."
"Well, how do I know?"
"On the vague and the general Ribot: Evolution of General Ideas, Open Court Co.,."
"A reason for a belief is a true proposition from which the truth of the belief follows from which it could be validly inferred."
"The third change (which I first introduced, tentatively, in is explained and developed in the Postscript, where it is also applied to the problems of quantum theory."
"Also, new methods of disguise are available, thanks to the device of personal time."
"Let us reconsider Nozick's grandmother case cited in my section."
"The presupposition is that there is some hidden feature which may or may not be present in our actual world, and which if present would make true the counterfactual that would have occurred anyway without."
"In opposition to this subjective view, an objective view has sometimes been advocated."
"The process of abstraction in this case seems to proceed somewhat as follows:"
"what about according to me?"
"The two possibilities may be illustrated by an example."
"Such a state is called a disposition."
"Counterfactual Probability"
"Nor is there any reason to say that if I had raised my hand there would have been some other lawbreaking event besides the divergence miracle; still less, that some other law breaking event would have been caused by, or would have been, my act of raising my hand."
"It is the rule which says that the other rules of scientific procedure must be designed in such a way that they do not protect any statement in science against falsification."
"But if tiger Enghsh meant, among other things, either quadruped or quadrupedal, the phrase a three legged tiger could only be a ?"
"Professor James certainly wishes to assert that there is some connection between truth and utility."
"(These two are not the only alternatives.)"
", it is meaningful for me to ask him Can you be mistaken?"
"Schilpp, (La Salle,.:"
"For my part I am unable to attach as much importance to this work as many psychologists do."
"what kind of thing it might be that he has before him then"
"In a discussion session after my lecture, Gunnar Bjo¨rnsson asked how I would handle '"
"that p', 'A has the thought p', and 'A says p' are of the form 'p' says p': and this does not involve a correlation of a fact with an object, but rather the correlation of facts by means of the correlation of their objects."
"It is clear, that is, that, if there are times at which a particular true idea is useful, there certainly are other times at which it would not be useful, but positively in the way."
"This is how it strikes me."
"On the contrary, I state that definite descriptions can be rigid too, though typically they are not."
"The statement: Necessarily all and only bachelors are bachelors is evidently true, even supposing 'necessarily' so narrowlv construed as to be truly applicable only to analytic statements."
"Think how we learn to use the expressions"
"The added opinions do not bear in any overly direct way on the future outcomes of chance processes."
"If is our madman, we are inclined to say that he is in pain when he is in the state that occupies the role of pain for the rest of us; and so says the theory, provided that criterion is outweighed by the other three, so that the appropriate population is taken to be mankind."
"According to Witold has candidate; according to he merely wishes the appropriate form of government were in force."
"Why need we make this demand?"
"that all mathematical truth<U+FFFD> are definitional abbreviations of logical truths, it follows that mathematics is true by convention."
"But as for what was characteristic in what happened if say what happened, I no longer find it characteristic."
"And this is the question to which I will now address myself."
"I am supposing that it is useful to us to notice these patches and their shapes; that we can infer important properties of the objects from them."
"Hence my body and I, enduring things, are identical simpliciter."
"Any world in which we imagine a substance which does not have these properties is a world in which we imagine a substance which is not gold, provided these properties form the basis of what the substance is."
"To ignore this question would be like describing a chronometer without regard to its accuracy as a time keeper, or a thermometer without mentioning the fact that it measures temperature."
"I admit that in the absence of a clear criterion, not only is there the danger of a philosopher drawing the wrong conclusion from a toy duck usage, but there is also the opposite danger of dismissing a valid example as a toy duck usage."
"I agree that there are two alternative uses of this and other performative sentences: the genuinely performative use and the non performative self descriptive use."
"So counting by identityyesterday, there was only one."
"It is here assumed that we have by now made up our minds that whenever there is a clear cut falsification, we will attribute to the hypothesis the probability zero, so that the discussion is now confined to those cases in which no clear cut falsification has been obtained."
"My own belief for which the reasons will appear in subsequent lectures is that James is right in rejecting consciousness as an entity, and that the American realists are partly right, though not wholly, in considering that both mind and matter are composed of a neutral stuff which, in isolation, is neither mental nor material."
"But so far, this looks to me like nothing better than guilt by association."
"Thus it may well be possible to extract in words all that has meaning in an image content; in that case the word content and the image content will have exactly the same objective reference."
"The acceleration of the electron does depend causally on its presence in the field."
"In this respect, judging is exactly like every other relation."
"The certainly will know that the tallest spy is a spy, and therefore, according to the unrestricted exportation principle, will know of the tallest spy that he or she is a spy."
"We see a series in just one way!"
"And hence the word wrong in my mouth, means something entirely different from what it does in yours; just as the word I in my mouth stands for an entirely different person from what it does in yours in mine it stands for me, in yours it stands for you."
"But what we call measuring is partly determined by a certain constancy in results of measurement."
"(Just as we can give someone a number by telling him that it is the twenty fifth in the series,. . .)"
"The offenders are not those who make a considered argument for the existence of an attribute or class for every general term."
"The word which I have here translated excellence is what is commonly translated virtue but it does not mean quite the same as we mean by virtue, and that in a very important respect."
"And on what occasion?."
"It is tempting to do the same with the counterpart relations, forming the concept of a superperson or superbody consisting of persons or bodies in different worlds, linked together by a personal or bodily counterpart relation."
"The question is, why?"
"Self ascription of properties is ascription of properties to oneself under the relation of identity."
"But what is the meaning of the word five No such thing was in question here, only how the word five is used."
"I nvolvement, Essav above Chapter."
"what is meant by saying that it is perceived."
"Such is the indeterminacy of reference, as I have come to call it."
"These assumed facts the assumed fact that one observation of mine is accompanied by the existence of one particular kind of thing, and that another observation of mine is accompanied by the existence of a different particular kind of thing, will then give me a reason for different generalisations concerning the connection of different perceptions of mine with different external objects objects which I do not perceive."
"And I have admitted that the foreigner will probably pronounce a sentence differently if he conceives it differently; but what we call his wrong conception need not lie in anything that accompanies the utterance of the command."
"(The net might also consist of more than one kind of mesh:"
"I come now to the view of belief which I wish to advocate."
"A question which has often been raised in philosophy is: What are its essential properties?"
"If I am not mistaken, Frege's theory about the meaning of propositions and functions is based on the confusion between an argument and an affix."
"It is quite irrelevant that they cannot be made to coincide."
"These uniquely identifying properties he comes to associate with 'London' after he learned English, and he expresses the appropriate beliefs about 'London' in English."
"But the objcts still a rc observable spatiotemporal objcts."
"What then becomes of my asymmetry of miracles?"
"Sincerely' is meant to exclude mendacity, acting, irony, and the like."
"But it says also that we should conform our credences to the expected values of the present chances."
"It may be worth a small miracle to prolong or expand a region of perfect match."
"I might say it pointing at a Volkswagen when I say the first 'this' and at a Volkswagen when I say the second 'this'."
"He thinks that Frege was driven to a doctrine of private, incommunicable thoughts by the pressures of his linguistic theory."
"The antecedent is a proposition about history up to that time; and further, it is a complete proposition about history up to that time, so that it either implies or else is incompatible with any other proposition about history up to that time."
"Ivan has stopped beating his wife."
"We might keep attributes and propositions after all, but just not try to cope with the problem of their individu ation."
"Everyone knows what a problem this is."
"Reply: If this doctrine is correct, I can treat it as a subtle sort of indexicality."
"I think I can express sufficiently accurately what I mean by it in this connection, as follows:"
"Does a proper analysis of knowledge really show they were doomed to failure in advance?"
"that we mean different things by one that one has different meanings?"
"At this stage I can disregard the fact that the believers in inductive logic entertain an idea of probability that I shall later reject as highly unsuitable for their own purposes (see section below)."
"Any <U+FFFD>tate ment can be held true"
"Bur utility need not imply significance, in any literal linguistic sense."
"I only wish to distinguish the two alternatives, noting that both are live options."
"If nothing is admissible it is vacuous."
"I must naturally be understood to mean: What proposition, other than one which itself asserts or presupposes the existence of something beyond ourselves and our own perceptions, is a reason for supposing that such a thing exists?"
"On the one hand, many psychologists, especially those of the behaviourist school, tend to adopt what is essentially a materialistic position, as a matter of method if not of metaphysics."
"Since these four theses concern causation among events, their meaning cannot be entirely clear until I provide a theory of events to go with them."
"This view asserts not that every true idea is useful at some time, or in the long run, or for a considerable period; but that the truth of an idea may come and go, as its utility comes and goes."
", that all sentences in class are true, we allow it to be false and grounded if one sentence in is false, irrespective of the groundedness of the other sentences in."
"The characteristic mark by which we recognize a series of actions which display hunger is not the animal's mental state, which we cannot observe, but something in its bodily behaviour; it is this observable trait in the bodily behaviour that I am proposing to call hunger, not some possibly mythical and certainly unknowable ingredient of the animal's mind."
"Our immediate knowledge of things, which we called acquaintance consists of two sorts, according as the things known are particulars or universals."
"can we discover any set of beliefs which are never mistaken or any test which, when applicable, will always enable us to discriminate between true and false beliefs?"
"If the actual chance of match is substantially below one, then despite the non probabilistic counterfactual, we have a consideration that detracts somewhat from the claim of the case to be judged positive."
"It was not forced on us."
"In this case my recollection will be true memory, not habit memory."
"But what there is is an other question."
"That is as if we had asserted something further about the ground, which justified it as a ground; whereas to say that this ground makes the occurrence probable is to say nothing except that this ground comes up to a particular standard of good grounds but the standard has no grounds."
"Suppose that the colour struck you as brighter on one day than on another; would you not sometimes say: I must be wrong, the colour is certainly the same as yesterday"
"I should like to contrast three rather different methods."
"These ways may be called 'psychological inference'."
"But when I have seen a flash of lightning and am waiting for the thunder, I have a belief feeling analogous to memory, except that it refers to the future: I have an image of thunder, combined with a feeling which may be expressed in the words: this will happen."
"That is not because we regard all times as equally present, but rather because if we ignore our own location in time we cannot use I owe this distinction to."
"They agree in that they share as a first object of belief the pair of Heimson and the property of being Hume."
"So the moderate realist must be able to say: it is true at that is actualized, for at, is theersatz world that alone represents the concrete world."
"I discussed the case of too in part just now."
"What matters more is that extreme standards would not fit a lot of our negative judgements about causation itself."
"But in fact all the propositions of logic say the same thing, to wit nothing."
"where is the union of all a for finite a, and is similarly the union of a for finite a."
"Goodness of explanation is governed by the pragmatic standards that apply to information giving generally."
"It might be said that his belief is a relation to a different object, namely 'that Desdemona loves Cassio'; but it is almost as difficult to suppose that there is such an object as this, when Desdemona does not love Cassio, as it was to suppose that there is 'Desdemona's love for Cassio'."
"And it specifies the direction of influence, what I must do to get what."
"First Triviality Result Suppose by way of reductio that is a universal probability conditional."
"And in future I shall so speak, because it is much more convenient."
"Russell's Notion of Scope this was regarded as completely new."
"Thus, Lewis's view seems to me even more bizarre than the usual notions of transworld identification that it replaces."
"And against the view that they are, there seem to me to be some quite definite arguments, though I am not satisfied that any of these arguments are absolutely conclusive."
"Some of these statements are true and do express propositions when we are just reporting on what is said in the story, but, as I said, that is not the sort of usage in question here."
"Only you can know if you had that intention."
"Of course that is the case, but that is talking about the language that Carroll would have used in that situation."
"I could want to have a cigarette, even though I don't believe that I should have one."
"It therefore is true if A(x)"
"If Jones says, 'I have never been at a bank,' and I report this, saying, 'Jones denied that he was ever at a bank,' the sense I give to 'bank' must match Jones's if my report is to be accurate."
"classes of 'higher' and 'lower' dimension, will be used here to tackle the problem of comparing."
"The name Jones is applicable to both, and it is only reflection that shows us that many diverse particulars are collected together to form the meaning of the name Jones."
"But in later life it is found that merely going to the larder does not cause fish to be there; after a series of random movements it is found that this result is to be caused by going to the City in the morning and coming back in the evening."
"These, if experimentally identified, could be taken as episte mological building blocks, the working elements experience."
"Now this something, which all of us who are not blind know, is not, according to science, really to be found in the outer world: it is something caused by the action of certain waves upon the eyes and nerves and brain of the person who sees the light."
"from a formal standpoint the signs thus intro duced are wholly arbitrary; all that is required of a definition is that it be theoretically immaterial,. ."
"is utterly convinced of its truth?"
"Perhaps our reply will be: the pupil shews that he is using the rule we have given him to pass from the printed to the spoken words."
"All our considerations can be formalized in a classical metalanguage."
", it will be convenient if, for the future, I may be allowed to use the term esse to denote alone."
"To this I reply that the rules we need are merely rules for accepting basic statements that falsify a well tested and so far successful hypothesis; and the accepted basic statements to which the rule has recourse need not be of this character."
"The philosophical self is not the human being, not the human body, or the human soul, with which psychology deals, but rather the metaphysical subject, the limit of the world not a part of it."
"Further, if one wishes to avoid the We!tmlgst and philosophical confusions that many philosophers have associated with the 'worlds' terminology, I recommended that 'possible state (or history) of the world', or 'counterfactual sitllation' might be better."
"Yet my reform, proposed in note to section (see also note to section, changes the situation entirely."
"and you make the judgment I did not come from Cambridge to day."
"not merely something that is preliminary to a proposition."
"Anything and nothing is right."
"What would it be like to doubt now whether I have two hands"
"And similarly it is not true of any feeling whatever, that if somebody has that feeling towards a given thing, then, in arty Universe, in which a thing precisely similar to A existed, somebody would have that feeling towards it."
"It is less the purpose of the present in quiry to question the validity of this contrast than to question its sense."
"Could we imagine learned judges being asked whether a doubt was reasonable or unreasonable."
"Heisenberg, as we know, questions the 'physical reality' of this measurement, because it permits us to calculate the momentum of the particle only upon its arrival at a precisely measured position and at a precisely measured time: the measurement seems to lack predictive content because no testable conclusion can be derived from it."
"Clearly the laws of logic cannot in their turn be subject to laws of logic."
"But it is a observation ,entence with this curious trait: it gives lasting infor mation, depen dent no longer on the vicissitudes of tense or of cator words like 'here' and 'now."
"The conjunction in question (put now in Nozick's original"
"If New York is pretty, London is, and (b) London is not pretty, Pierre should be able to deduce by modus tollens that New York is not pretty."
"Rather, we should see what is common to all or most ways (or all or most reasonable ways) of making the choice, caring little what happens on any particular way ot making it."
"(whereof 'H' might particular be nterpreted as."
"We need a general apparatus to discuss these questions."
"But there is a way of dodging the intensions which merits serious con sideration."
"A fragile event has a rich essence; it has stringent conditions of occurrence."
"With regard to both ideas many philosophers have thought and still think not only think but seem to be absolutely convinced, that when we apply them to anything when we assert of any action that it ought not to have been done, or of any state of things that it was or would be good or better than another, then it must be the case that all that we are asserting of the thing or things in question is simply and solely that some person or set of persons actually does have, or has a tendency to have a certain sort of feeling towards the thing or things in question: that there is absolutely no more in it than this."
"We learn in the first volume that the hero had lunch in Glasgow on a certain day."
"This seems to me to be true, and, indeed, to be all that is certainly true in what he says."
"There is an attribute' fol lows from 'There are red houses, red roses, red sunsets."
"And, on the other hand, we also sometimes observe our own perceptions of such contents and our thoughts."
"have to be animals; but if one is interested in having a toy, then a duck can be made of plastic."
"Let me write 'pars' for this copula."
"the belief that each mean ingful statement is equivalent to some logical construct upon terms which refer to immediate experience."
"I write 'TpF', 'TqF', 'TrF', etc."
"But the present case shows the list is much longer still."
"In my opinion, the first form of abstract concepts in general is based upon such abstract pictures."
"In some cases it will be possible to say some such thing, in most not."
"I was not present at the exchange between Nagel and Albritton, but when I delivered this talk someone who heard the exchange told me afterward that he remembered it vividly."
"The situation is in principle the same (even though empirical tests are somewhat more difficult) in the case of the first example we considered, namely the selection of particles according to their position in the direction of travel."
"Analysis agrees with Analysis about the equivalence (except when A is impossible) of (A C) and A."
"In this way the most fundamental confusions are easily produced (the whole of philosophy is full of them)."
"He further claims that this judgment is correct; but there I do not agree, and I insist that the essential feature of seeing is altogether missing."
"A S', then contradicts and C(S/ equals zero."
"We are uttering a mere tautology if we mean by in the mind' the same as by before the mind', ie if we mean merely being apprehended by the mind."
"Let me return to the question about names which I raised."
"Sheep arc real, unicorns not."
"It is an immediate consequence that there can be no such thoughts."
"The I relation will fail to be transitive if and only if there is partial overlap among continuant persons."
"Exigencies of a preface may make the following remarks too brief as well, but I shall discuss the scope question in the light of the present explanation of rigidity."
"In fact, no fold distinction can do so, for any fixed."
"The strong 'if then,' can correspondingly he rectified to a relation of implication properly so called."
"Of course, we can save the third condition in the same somewhat artificial way we saved it for 'I exist' that is, count it as trivially true had I not existed."
"In fairness to Nozick, in his note on page he shows awareness of some of the problems with backtracking and even notes that David Lewis's discussion of the question does not agree with the tenor of his own footnote."
"When as in this case, we disapprove of the expressions of ordinary language (which are after all performing their office), we have got a picture in our heads which conflicts with the picture of our ordinary way of speaking."
"It corresponds to a logical form a logical prototype."
"And my doubts increase when I remember that what is to be called a 'science' and who is to be called a 'scientist' must always remain a matter of convention or decision."
"The above argument supposes we are working with a language rich enough to contain the adverb 'necessarily, this adverh being so construed as to yield truth when and only when applied to an analytic statemen."
"(Well, little children are fond of reciting their ages."
"Given this, it seems hard to condemn our practice of translating both names as 'Germany' as 'loose'; in fact, it would seem that Hebrew just has two names for the same country where English gets by with one."
"The sentence Holmes and Watson are identical."
"Thus I declare my faith in an objective interpretation; chie<U+FB02>y because I believe that only an objective theory can explain the application of the probability calculus within empirical science."
"Still it won't be a necessary truth for him."
"My own feeling is that they have rashly assumed the presence of thinking in cases where habit has rendered thinking unnecessary."
"Intensionhood is relational."
"That is to say this type of argument,"
"And as for the assertion that all ideas, which pay for a considerable time, are true, this is obviously more doubtful still."
"The present treatment of events should not be expected to deliver them wholesale, as witness the mathematical sequence that converges although there occurs no event in the sense I have in mind which is its converging."
"A classical view which Putnam mentioned, advocated by Mill, states that proper names have as their function simply to refer; they have denotation but not connotation."
"Or might be an epiphenomenon of the causal history of e: a more or less inefficacious effect of some genuine cause of."
"I say not, since if the prior state obtains, there's nothing you can do about it now."
"So no segment of Methuselah passes both tests for personhood to any significant degree."
"For there are latent in it several different interpretations which I will classify as subjective and objective."
"The conceptual studies arc concerned with clarifying concepts by defining them, some in terms of others. '"
"It has even been asserted that my own view itself reduces to a view about scope, that the doctrine of rigidity simply is the doctrine that natural language has a convention that a name, in the context of any sentence, should be read with a large scope including all modal operators, This latter idea is particularly wide ofthe mark; in terms ofmodal logic, it represents a technical error."
"The hearer's trustful believing need not be part of the content of the convention, though it must be mentioned to explain why the hearer acts in conformity."
"That is to say, what Time is unreal implies is that, in the case of a large number of different properties which are such that, if they did belong to anything, what they belonged to would be facts having some common characteristic, which we might express by calling them temporal facts, the properties in question do, in fact, belong to nothing."
"We could also, of course, begin with the empty (over determined) minus onedimensional class."
"(However, since I said the preceding paragraph, Nathan Salmon, with whom I discussed the problem some time ago probably a year or more has recently come up with a purely Russellian analysis."
"The second problem is that a stringent standard may give the wrong answer."
"First, this showed that eplstenuc questions should be separated from questions of necessity and contingency, and that to fix a reference is not to give a synonym."
"However, condition is not satisfied: if the brain damage had been slightly different, though using the same route to belief he would not believe he had it."
"Or a necessary property of Nixon that he has that prop ty."
"But these distinctions and the theory of them, which may be different from the theories proposed by some of these later linguists and by Quine, were all in Russell's paper."
"For example, we may select or separate a group of electrons according to their position in the direction (i.e. according to their co ordinates at a certain instant); this could be done, perhaps, by means of a shutter which we open for a very short time."
"I do not want therefore, to assert that all of them are so."
"Related ideas are to be found, for example, in Frank, Die Kausalit"
"Then the question arises Do you believe there are as many stones as that"
"The Martian is in pain in another sense, or relative to another population."
"It encourages neither a deterministic nor an indeterministic view."
"The laws that we actually know empirically have the form of the traditional causal laws, except that they are not to be regarded as universal or necessary."
"But the main problem with their paper is this: in order to obtain Go¨delian self reference, they take knowledge as a predicate, rather than an intensional operator (see their excuse at the end of the first paragraph on."
"The course of events would have diverged from the actual course of events a little while before I raised my hand, and at the point of divergence there would have been a law breaking event a divergence miracle, as I have called it."
"If so, to repeat, an interest in the law of identity has been attributed to the first gentleman of Europe!"
"I knAw that this room is on the second floor, that behind the door a shoa landing leads to the stairs, and so on."
"Maybe if Judy had not been there, no one would have."
"am trying to say something that sounds like pragmatism."
"Perhaps after all it would be better never to use the expression 'probability of statements' if we have the probability of events in mind."
"Recall the case of the labyrinth: you enter at choosing your turns by chance, and hope to reach the center by noon."
"Actually, of course, in previous writings Russell took the actual Meinong seriously and discussed him with respect."
"It is not how things are in the world that is mystical, but that it exists."
"I speak of physical selection or physical separation if, for example, we screen off, from a stream of particles, all except those which pass through a narrow aperture <U+2206>x, that is, through a range <U+2206>x allowed to their position."
"Bur I would ust propose again the answer that I gave then."
"To review our other operators: A is true at iff holds somewhere in every Apermitting sphere around, and there are such."
"Where our language suggests a body and there is none: there, we should like to say, is a spirit."
"For their application is not presented to us so clearly."
"I know that a sick man is lying here Nonsense!"
"We can define the meaning in, denotation in, etc., of a subsentential constituent in."
"(As if someone were to buy several copies of the morning paper to assure himself that what it said was true.)"
"Methodological rules are thus closely connected both with other methodological rules and with our criterion of demarcation."
"In the example of the beetles, classes were indeed out in the open even Iflordillatelv so, I argued."
"Generally speaking, another possible world is too far away."
"Of course I do not suggest that Quine has ever claimed the contrary."
"elements as metals in terms of their valency properties."
"Does the former lie concealed in the latter, and is it now brought out by analysis?"
"Since it is filtered out in the conditionals (or conjunctions), it might seem to follow that the antecedent must state the entire presupposition required."
"This will be so, especially if we believe that assertions that are known to be (trivially) logically equivalent 'amount to the same thing.'"
"Perhaps also I will be given a million; but whether I will or not is causally independent of what I do now."
"Compound meanings are, as it were, built up from simple meanings by steps in which several meanings (simple or compound) are combined as sub trees under a new node, analogously to the way in which expressions are built up by concatenating shorter expressions."
"When predication in the mode of necessity is di rected upon a variable, the necessity is de re: the predicate is meant to be true of the value of the varia hie by whatever name, there being indeed no name at hand. '"
"I call any part of a proposition that characterizes its sense an expression (or a symbol)."
"The rule is as follows; call it the rule of accommodation for permissibility."
"This is supposed to express not a symbolic convention but the purpose of my action."
"Arnim von Stechow has put forward proposals to this effect in his contribution to a symposium held at Konstanz University in September.tion"
"Their truth is evident to us, and we employ them in constructing demonstrations; but they themselves, or at least some of them, are incapable of demonstration."
"For example, I don't know if I have remembered the time of departure of a train right and to check it I call to mind how a page of the time table looked."
"Not all the possibilities there are enter into consideration."
"a word or image means an object, we said, when it has the same associations as the object."
"Every element of such a sequence is an segment of."
"were an ordinary person, but also in the case of the ordinary people who are all, modally speaking, Methuselahs."
"Philosophy is a battle against the bewitchment of our intelligence by means of language."
"But what does this function consist in?"
"He includes the statement 'three plus two is five' in the same batch as the inkbottle case."
"Perhaps in another sense, at the chromosomal level, being a woman is an essential property of Jones that could not have been different."
"The validity of resides in the fact that is true and so are all other statements with the same quantificational and truth functional structure as."
"Further, I think that even ifarcheologists or geologists were to discover tomorrow some fossils conclusively showing the existence of animals in the past satisfying everything we know about unicorns from the myth of the unicorn, that would not show that there were unicorns."
"That is just what we say when, for example, a contradiction appears: I didn't mean it like that."
"But this means that we are caught up in an infinite regress."
"that 'Der Gedanke' confirms his theory that for Frege names are like indexicals, and so on."
"By the very nature of our criterion, in this example, we get evi dence either of uniformity or of nothing."
"It does not suit me."
"any number of times."
"For he's using this defmition not to give the meaning of what he called the 'meter', but to .fix"
"At least, it is not part of the meaning of the name 'Dartmouth' that the town so named lies at the mouth of the Dart."
"The gate is more likely presupposed."
"My visual impression has changed; what was it like before and what is it like now?"
"Let us now examine the following kind of language game: when A gives an order has to write down series of signs according to a certain formation rule."
"A proposition is a picture of reality."
"John thinks 'I am under suspicion' in oratio recta, and refers to Anscombe's paper."
"Harris translates: 'sympathetic understanding of experience'."
"Then I focus attention on some contexts in particular, and on the range of similarity relations that apply in such contexts."
"A Bp) and Ap) and (Ap Bp)"
"the family O(e, O(e,."
"A piece of matter, according to the definition that I propose, is, as a first approximation, the collection of all those correlated particulars which would normally be regarded as its appearances or effects in different places."
"Replace by 'I correctly believe that p' and then add the same as before.)"
"The principle of ,ubstitutivity should not be extended to contexts which the name to be supplanted occurs without referring simply to the objct."
"I is simply a coi nciding of dispositions: we are disposed to assent to both sentences in the same circumstances."
"The theory and the history tw together are enough to imply all that is true (and contradict all that is false) at world about chances at time."
"It is a contingent identity.'"
"The footnotes, which were added to the original, would have become even more unwieldy if this had not been done."
"hasn't one, in this sense, a proof of the proposition?"
"And for what are words lacking?"
"The same thing, I say, holds of unicorns."
"I hope that in some cases I will be able to write at greater length."
"Likewise there are worlds where a diverse and widespread miracle to permit perfect reconvergence takes place mostly before and during t: Nixon's fingers leave no prints, the tape recorder malfunctions, and so on."
"There are besides, I believe, many persons, not improperly called Idealists, who hold certain characteristic propositions, without venturing to think them quite sufficient to prove so grand a conclusion."
"If I say That which is red is not green"
"But whether true or false, idealism is not to be dismissed as obviously absurd."
"and in further tests he always retains the same interpretation of the marks: here we should certainly be inclined to say he was making up an alphabet for himself"
"In particular this happens if: a) a method (not the one he actually uses) satisfying the third condition is in some sense 'available' to S; or b) has a true belief satisfying the third condition such that not is 'more possible' than not."
"Although I was surprised to hear an objection whi.ch concedes so little intelligence to the argument, I have tried especially to a the term 'correlated' which seems to give rise to the objection."
"The apparatus of speaker's reference and semantic reference, and of simple and complex uses of designators, is needed anyway, to explain the Smith Jones case; it is applicable to all languages."
"see no reason to expect that the full width analyticity which Carnap and others make such heavy demands upon can be fitted to such a foundation in even an approximate way."
"I can know what someone else is thinking, not what I am thinking."
"It seems to be obviously doubtful."
"The existence of limits of attainable precision which was asserted by Heisenberg would therefore not be a logical consequence deducible from the formulae of the theory."
"I do not deny that some events are disjunctions of others."
"Some philosophers have distinguished between essentialism, the belief in modality de re, and a mere advocacy of necessity, the belief in modality de dicta."
"It would be nice if we could take such descriptions of fictional characters at their face value, ascribing to them the same subject predicate form as parallel descriptions of real life characters."
"Just as the actual scene causes matching visual experience, so likewise would alternative scenes."
"antecedent to be true, the consequent must be true, not only in the actual world but also in a range of 'very near' possible worlds where the antecedent is true."
"it cannot, for certainly did not grow up learnmg definitions of physicalistic language terms of a prior language of set theory, logic, and observation."
"In Theories and Things I wrote that natural ism is the recognition that it is within science itself, and not in some prior philosophy"
"I will leave it for the present to consider the next ambiguity in the statement:"
"Philosophical Review,."
"How To Define Terms objector properly denies is this: for no possible world is it the case that has a unique realization in but that the first component thereof is not the property named by, in our actual world."
"For he takes the sense of a designator to be its meaning; and he also takes it to be the way its reference is determined."
"In knowledge of the future, it is obvious that they are totally distinct, since otherwise the response would precede the stimulus."
"It is, therefore, scarcely necessary to say that I am not using impossible in this sense."
"(Incidentally, if Davidson's theory does block any inference to the transparency of belief contexts with respect to names, why does Peacocke assume without argument that it does not do so for modal contexts, which have a similar grammatical structure?)"
"Mr. Russell: It does not matter about that if it does not alter its appearance enough for you to have a different sense datum."
"Let us ignore the complications introduced by deficient person stages."
"This is the doctrine that some of the attributes of a thing quite independently of the language in which the thing is referred to, if at all) may be essential to th th ing, and others acciden tal.g., a man, or talking animal, or featherless biped for they"
"The one child has acquired the habit of saying six times nine is fifty four the other has not."
"translated by Anscombe and Geach) Descartes goes on to argue in the same vein that the way I feel sensation shows that I am a unity, including my body."
"One might have favored 'designation'; Feigl's 'nominatum', which Feigl followed, clearly failed to gain wide currency because it was too awkward."
"To deny the mental process would mean to deny the remembering; to deny that anyone ever remembers anything."
"This is not a case that can be treated by fragility of the effect, or not under moderate standards of fragility."
"However, ith thiS much by way of caveat against qUlh bllOg, perhaps we can keep to our convennonal example and overlook lvagatlolb."
": Cicero has a six letter name, which does say something abollt the man Cicero, and<U+FFFD>"
"But suppose that when he did this he always wrote for, for, for, and so on, and a for Z?"
"Professor James seems also anxious to illustrate the point that one man's beliefs often depend upon the previous experiences or interests or volitions of other men."
"I hope that in this paper I have managed to keep the topics separate."
"The logic of the world, which is shown in tautologies by the propositions of logic, is shown in equations by mathematics."
"For the account in merely set up a connexion between those signs and certain words of our language (the names of colours)."
"But although my position confirmed the Millian account of names in modal contexts, it equally appears at first blush to imply a non Millian account of epistemic and belief contexts (and other contexts of propositional attitude)."
"It generates another function which assigns meanings to certain strings of sounds or of marks."
"So long as the reference remains the same, such variations of sense may be tolerated, although they are to be avoided in the theoretical structure of a demonstrative science and ought not to occur in a perfect language."
"Whenever the sense of familiarity occurs without a definite object, it leads us to search the environment until we are satisfied that we have found the appropriate object, which leads us to the judgment: is familiar."
"you must also have one in order to develop the series. ."
"By excluding contradiction and tautology (as well as metaphysical statements) the formula expresses at the same time both the requirement of consistency and that of falsifiability."
"Would it not be possible that people came into my room and all declared the opposite?"
"But that is not to say that language cannot be conventional."
"But no more can be necessary for the truth of these judgments than is actually asserted in or logically implied by them."
"I the simplest method of forming terms that purport to name unobservables, but there are also more flexible devices to much the same effect: the relative clause and description."
"I therefore proposed in a letter to Carnap (written, I think, about to use the term 'corroboration'."
"Some but which ones?"
"For my own part I believe, however, that in making this kind of hypothetical estimate of frequency we are often guided solely by our re<U+FB02>ections about the significance of symmetry, and by similar considerations."
"In the second place, even if every term, or at least a significant number of terms, were exportable in some context, why depart from the general strategy stated in account to embrace account I?"
"But that possibility also has nothing to do with survival."
"(My solution depends on assuming that if the intermediate event the vigorous firing of had not occurred, then would not have fired at all."
"We have in these reflections some materi als for speculation regarding the early beginnings of an ontology of attri butes in the childhood of the race."
"It might be thought that this view leads to an infinite regress, and that it is therefore untenable."
"Someone tells me: I saw it at once as two hexagons."
"it was a contemporary of John Horne"
"Its conjunctions of full patterns including back trackers would not be causal dependency hypotheses, and it would give just those wrong answers about Newcomb problems that we causal decision theorists are trying to avoid."
"The problem of induction may also be formulated as the question of the validity or the truth of universal statements which are based on experience, such as the hypotheses and theoretical systems of the empirical sciences."
"the funda mental cleavages among modern points of view on foundations of math ematics do come down pretty explicitly to disagreements as to the range of entities to which the bound variables should be permitted to refer."
"Now suppose in particular that we a bstract from existing usage of the locutions 'if then,' 'not' and the rest of our logical pritives, that for the time being these become meaningless marks, and theerst"
"That is because it is a contingent fact indeed it is the contingent fact on which all others depend which possible world is our actual world."
"Without would have been delayed; and so a more fragile version of would not have occurred at all."
"It is easy to see what details I should add to show that I was not wrong about the time, and similarly to show that I hadn't misunderstood the story."
"The Future Similarity Objection Several people have raised what they take to be a serious objection against Analysis."
"I am firmly convinced that others believe, believe they know, that all that is in fact so."
"It gives expression to the difference between the forms."
"In the case, for instance, of the so called images which we perceive in a looking glass, we may very readily admit that the colours and shapes which we perceive do not exist at the places where they appear to be namely at various distances behind the glass."
"Still, I do not wish to deny that some such view may possibly be true."
"It is also possible for someone to get an explanation of the words out of what was intended as a piece of information."
"Since the purport of the theses is clear, and they are false anyway"
"But why isn't one surprised here?."
"I would like to be able to provide for causation by omission within the general framework given in this paper and in Events (in this volume)."
"We would not rise to except in the rare case where we want to treat the metalanguage hy means of itself, and want furthermore to extend the notion of validity beyond the se mantics of logic to the semantics of semantics."
"Rules of sorts and are sometimes called constitutive rules."
"Perhaps physicists will accommodate this quandary in another way."
"James (Psychology, vol."
"But when different languages of our cluster disagree on the analyticity of a sentence, then that sentence is unsharply analytic among us."
", apprised of his role in the community or asking about it, say that one didn't really know who he was."
"are no more located in logical space than they are in ordinary time and space."
"That inconsistencies may easily arise in connection with the principle of induction should have been clear from the work of Hume; also, that they can be avoided, if at all, only with difficulty."
"In certain circumstances one can say As I was speaking, I felt I was saying it tojou."
"had nothing to say about fiction as a means to truth."
"The extended analysis, which allows causation by quasi dependence, is more complicated than my original analysis; and it is less purely a counterfactual analysis, though of course counterfactual dependence still plays a central role."
"The scene before the eyes causes matching visual experience without any pattern of counterfactual dependence whatever, suitable or otherwise."
"This is repeated over and over again."
"Strawson eventually conceded such cases (in Strawson ))."
"You are in a room with a man, whom you see: you may cease to see him either by shutting your eyes or by his going out of the room."
"We understand ex pressions by knowing or grasping thei meanings; and one expression serves as a translation or paraphrase of another because they mean the same."
"Our derivative knowledge of things, which we call knowledge by description always involves both acquaintance with something and knowledge of truths."
"Experience is something unique and different from anything else; Experience of green is entirely indistinguishable from green; two propositions which cannot both be true."
"By saying that it is an event in me, we leave it possible that it may be caused: its privacy may be only due to its connection with my body."
"Thus, so far as knowledge of detached facts is concerned, the advantage is on the side of self knowledge as against external observation."
"Suppose Henry is perfectly familiar with the papier ma^che´ barns in the area they are known to everyone, and he himself has inspected a few counterfeits at close range."
"Precisely because of this fact, it is not this table which could have been made of ice."
"Here I am simplifying matters by assuming what may well be false: that the languages have resources adequate to describe the complex shapes, tunes, etc."
"Most children taking the test get the right answer, and the tester says to the tallest spy, whom he happens to know (and whom he also knows to be the tallest spy) yes, this is a tall story in more than one sense 'most of the children realized that you are the spy on the list.'"
"And I believe that only a revival of interest in these riddles can save the sciences and philosophy from narrow specialization and from an obscurantist faith in the expert's special skill, and in his personal knowledge and authority; a faith that so well fits our 'post rationalist' and 'post critical' age, proudly dedicated to the destruction of the tradition of rational philosophy, and of rational thought itself."
"Nevertheless, Henry still 'knows' there is a real barn, according to Nozick's conditions."
"shew precisely that there is nothing there, when I look about for a content?"
"Such terms possess built in modes of individuation."
"and then in the course of our investigations these facts lead us to an answer."
"Why not also as members of subpopulations whose boundaries don't follow the borders of the worlds?"
", if it were not confirmed by further verification more often than uncertain memory was, then the expression of certainty and uncertainty would not have its present function in language."
"In Levi's physics, a coin coming loose from fingers and tumbling in air until it falls flat on a table is a classical system, an oasis of determinism in a chancy microworld."
"On the other hand 'the length of at to' does not designate anything rigidly."
"But if a person has not yet got the concepts, I shall teach him to use the words by means of examples and by practice."
"The language games are rather set up as objects of comparison which are meant to throw light on the facts of our language by way not only of similarities, but also of dissimilarities."
"We can speak of the place of pain in the causal network from stimuli to inner states to behavior."
"Words in an indirect context refer to their ordinary senses."
"Do you want to say. . . ."
"An interesting discussion of the question whether instinctive actions, when first performed, involve any prevision, however vague, will be found in Lloyd Morgan's Instinct and Experience (Methuen, chap."
"Angell in an article called A Reconsideration of James's Theory of Emotion in the Light of Recent Criticisms."
"The upshot is that it is hard to say anything false about essences."
"Mere unit classes of regions are ruled out, and I should think a good deal else besides."
"It is generally assumed that, given any event, there is some one phenomenon which is cause of the event in question."
"I think that I would rather say that one can know something now but lose that knowledge at a later date on the basis of further misleading evidence."
"As things are I can, for example, invent a game that is never played by anyone."
", it doesn't matter which; and let us fix on a sequence of times, in order from earlier to later, to be called. ."
"First, because the negations of some meaningful statements would become meaningless, according to this criterion."
"The easy familiarity of mentalistic talk is not to he trusted."
"The word 'simplicity' is used in very many different senses."
"The conventi Oil becomes clearer if we use the prefix ,<U+FFFD>"
"I have explained in some detail in my paper on Frege how to put the matter in Frege's own terms"
"A newer variant of the subjective interpretation, however, deserves more serious consideration here."
"From the present llt of view a contextual dehllIt may be recurSive, hut can then count among Its dcfilllenciJ only those express ns"
"C(E/G) was close to one and C(E/-G)"
"The recent to comes a a reminder that relative general terms, or polyadic predicates, must be allowed for along with the mo nadic ones;. ."
"Then a tiny miracle takes place, permitting divergence."
"But what do we regard as the criterion for remembering it right?"
"As is only right and proper: the Grand Final does not cause or get caused simpliciter."
"Corresponding remarks apply directly to the maxim of the uniformity of nature, according to which, vaguely speaking, things similar in some respects tend to prove similar in others."
"It is not so clear that we insist on counting a product of fusion as one (or a time traveler meeting himself as two)."
"In practice he certainly would."
"Let me brie<U+FB02>y state my own position."
"They serve no purpose."
"But if a model is substituted then the result will be a system of analytic statements (since it will be true by convention)."
"Besides acquitting themselves in instantiation, such terms lend themselves in pairs to the su bstitutivity of simple identity."
"Do my approximations have the same power?"
"Finally, we would not expect the alleged ambiguity to be disambiguated in other languages, and this means we probably regard ourselves as possessing a unitary concept Aside from methodological considerations, is there any direct evidence that would favor one of our two rival accounts?"
"After a while the teacher says: Now he can read!"
"Consider a particular pain, or other sensation, that you once had."
"Why then should a logically true sentence on the same topic,.g."
"They feel the same kind of contempt for those who hold it, which we are apt to feel towards those whom we regard as grossly superstitious, and which is felt by certain persons for what they call metaphysics."
"Philosophy may claim justly that it diminishes the risk of error, and that in some cases it renders the risk so small as to be practically negligible."
"And possible for whom?"
"But how does he know where and how he is to look up the word 'red'"
"To be more exact, we should say that it serves to decide upon probability."
"For the evidential relation is virtually enacted, it would seem, the learning."
"Since the phenomenon Donnellan cites would arise in all the Russell languages, if they were spoken, the fact that they do arise in English, as actually spoken, can be no argument that English is not a Russell language."
"Nevertheless, the ants tend the Lomechusa larvae with the same care they bestow on their own young."
"Obviously to refer to individuals. '"
"Futther there was the rigor, explicitness, and clarity of the definitions, theorems, and proofs."
"It is self evident that identity is not a relation between objects."
"But there is no contradiction, or conflict, or unbridgeable gap, or even tension, between knowledge de dicto and the rest."
"sometimes overall similarities, sometimes similarities of detail."
"One would like to say that these two kinds of use do not yield a single meaning; the union under one head is an accident, a mere inessential."
"Let us mention another case emphasized by Sosa."
"They illustrate some general methodological considerations and apparatus that I think should be applied to the problems discussed here and to other linguistic problems."
"The old theory, even when it is superseded, often retains its validity as a kind of limiting case of the new theory; it still applies, at least with a high degree of approximation, in those cases in which it was successful before."
"Watson did not claim that quite all thought was incipient speech; it was all incipient twitching of muscles, and mostly of speech muscles."
"that meant something like:"
"I have not seen this paper, but it probably is a descendant of the paper referred to above."
"The feasibility of this artificial dentification of any mental seizure, with the corresponding time slice of its physical host, may be seen by reflecting on the following simple maneuver."
"Might it have been not a pair of twin brothers, but rather a pair of totally unrelated inhabitants of separate planets?"
"If a question can be framed at all, it is also possible to answer it."
"For example, we saw, in our early chapters, that knowledge of physical objects, as opposed to sense data, is only obtained by an inference, and that they are not things with which we are acquainted."
"We do keep their sentences as meaningful, but only because they are built of the same lexicon and grammatical constructions that are needed in applica ble mathematics."
"They are akin to the straightforward directives No smoking!"
"And whether there are or were such barns in Sweden could be (indirectly) relevant to the counterfactual."
"What kind of actions accompany these words?"
"Uniform propositional objects, on the other hand, facilitate systematic common sense psychology."
"Thus we are now entitled to replace, in, F' by F; and this means that we may accept the claim that the third binomial formula solves Bernoulli's problem."
"This response reveals an ambiguity in what I had said: one construal involves quantification over real gods, in which it is presumably already guaranteed that there is no such a god as Moloch; the other construal involves quantification over mythical entities, as in 'Was there such a (mythical) god?'"
"It is one thing to postpone an event, another to cancel it."
"Rather I shall present and this will form the core of the present paper an argument for a paradox about names in belief contexts that invokes no principle of substitutivity."
"In view of the causal definition of the difference between images and sensations, this brings us to a new question, namely: Are the causal laws of psychology different from those of any other science, or are they really physiological?"
"If both descriptions are somewhat vague or ambiguous, it could be that both denote both."
"I am supposing that a woman becomes a man if such an operation occurred."
"Schlick attributed this theory to a personal communication of Wittgenstein's."
"knowing that the examination will not be given on the last day, the (N l)th is the last possible day left, and then we go through the very same reasoning for that day as we did for the Nth day; we therefore will not need any more premises to allow us to rule out each day one by one going backward."
"The first form, with 'de Gaulle' as subject is, Linsky argues, predicative, and not the 'is' of identity."
"I now think that we do this intuition sufficient justice when we say that the first and second events, though not identical, also are not distinct."
"It is false at our world that the name, Sherlock Holmes, as used in the stories, refers to someone."
"We will call it aspect blindness and will next consider what might be meant by this."
"This correspondence is mentioned in a footnote in 'On Denoting':"
"This reasoning, I think, has been widely accepted as proof that codesignative proper names are not interchangeable in belief contexts."
"Or, better, we may speak of degrees of observationality; for even the stimulus meaning of Tra nslation ilnd ."
"But more cautiously, I want to present a better picture without giving a set of necessary and sufficient conditions for reference."
"The statement from our diagram yields the following example: '(x) (x is an orbit of a planet is an ellipse)' which means: 'Whatever may be, if is an orbit of a planet then is an ellipse.'"
"Everything, of course, is real; but there are sheep and there are unicorns, there are clouds and there is (in the specified sense of the term"
"I may wonder what Aristotle is called in Hebrew or Greek."
"Then plan and presupposition might well conflict."
"One might think that the objection would simply have been accepted for the cases where it works, and otherwise sent people back to the drawing board."
"men know the truth with pedect certainty."
"It is worthless to call it a convention to use even if it can correctly be so described, for we want to know what it is to use."
"Nozick's condition I does seem to be the formulation of appropriate to his theory when the method is inferring a conclusion from a premise."
"These correlations are, as it were, the feelers of the picture's elements, with which the picture touches reality."
", we sti retam the right to falsify the statement tomorro"
"(Rather with that of certain branches of mathematics."
"Pierre, as I said, has no disposition to assent to."
"But many of our urgent desires are not occurrent, for instance your present desire not to suffer a certain torture too fiendish for you to imagine."
"To this doctrine James entirely assents, adding in italics:."
"What kind of grounds have I for trusting text books of experimental physics"
"That is to say, it belongs to the logic of our scientific investigations that certain things are in deed not doubted."
"See the conclusion of (in this volume)."
"Today is my birthday"
"But what Hintikka's argument fails to recognize is that in this sense in this special usage, where one is reporting on the play '"
"Bernoulli's theorem, ie formula, may be expressed in words as follows."
"Such is the dependence of individuation, in the time dimension, upon relative clauses; and it is only with full individuation that comes fully into its own."
"Here the 'background' is simply the surrounding of the cross."
"The shock of surprise on an occasion of this kind makes us aware of the expectations that habitually enter into our perceptions; and such expectations must be classed as beliefs, in spite of the fact that we do not normally take note of them or put them into words."
"(He chooses the first)."
"So we are asking for the expression This word signifies this to be made a part of the description."
"Suppose it held for."
": We can apply the Rule of Averaging to expand the V 's that appear in our definition of expected utility."
"The correct explanation of the propositions of logic must assign to them a unique status among all propositions."
"Thus I regard the comparison of the empirical content of two statements as equivalent to the comparison of their degrees of falsifiability."
"There is the beginning of a causal process running from the preempted alternative to the effect."
"It would be useless for Jim to ask Jack for help, since Jack would not help him."
"((Connexion with 'pain in someone else's body'.))"
"I do not offer to prove my principle that the definitive characteristics of experiences as such are their causal roles."
"Re ew a few weeks after the Toronto meeting, and four months later there were sym posia on it in Boston and at Stanford."
"To which he replied But that's an a"
"An electron's presence in a field can cause its acceleration; radiation of two frequencies can reverberate throughout the same cavity; two chemical reactions can go on in the same flask."
"One has already to know (or be able to do) something in order to be capable of asking a thing's name."
"Smart's concession that his formula does not really translate avowals is unnecessary."
"Further, there is a systematic way to construct the definitions, given the specifications."
"Mr Strawson on Referring.'"
", you can imagine that too, that might happen too!"
"To rescue (T) without denying the possibility of body switching and without denying that I might occupy the same body throughout the time that it or I exist, 'The so called problem of personal identity is the problem of explicating the relation of personal unity between stages."
"Here too there is understanding and failure to understand."
"The advantages in general are those we have seen in this case: the state becomes recognized as real and efficacious; unrestricted mutual interdefinition of the state and others of its sort becomes permissible; and it becomes intelligible that the state may sometimes occur despite prevention of its definitive manifestations."
"Moore's quotation shows that Wittgenstein still holds this view in his lectures in the."
"The first thing you say may, of course, be just:"
"You have the same paradox."
"than a given amount. . ."
"If certain sentences express propostitions, any tautological truth function of them expresses a true proposition."
"Given this, and Nozick's assertion of closure under known logical equivalence, he has plainly contradicted his commitment to closure under adding a disjunct."
"There remains room for disagreement over cases; and so the is"
"As Robert Nozick pointed out to me, there is a sense in which a description theory must be trivially true if any theory of the reference of names, spelled out in terms independent of the notion of reference, is available."
"Probably something amounting to this disjunction is what Sider has in mind as the interpretation for his 'tenseless' statement, but his attempt at expressing it in English seems defective."
"ll own objctifying apparatus"
"Such events, if they are represented by anything present, can only be represented by images, not by those intermediate stages, between sensations and images, which occur during the period of fading."
"Now, suppose you take the sentence 'George."
"It is therefore somewhat surprising that in a large number of cases even the intuitively more plausible third condition is vulnerable to similar strengthening tricks like the fourth."
"Not their disjunction"
"If we attend to business we are unlikely to find a very alien culture with a predilection for a very out landish universe of discourse, ust because the outlandishness of it would detract from our sense of patness of our dictionary of translation."
"When I said I knew how to go on, I did know."
"It may be that, with sufficient imagination, a novelist might invent a past for the world that would perfectly fit on to what we know, and yet be quite different from the real past."
"Wre ask What does 'I am frightened' really mean, what am I referring to when I say it?"
"Never mind whether it is a stage"
"know that I am a human being."
"In fact, in my spring seminar on epistemology, several participants, especially Melvyn Nathanson and Romina Padro´, gave serious reasons to doubt Harman's (and Nozick's) intuitions about this particular case."
"For each of these histories, some strong conditional holds at our chosen world that tells what the chance at of A would be if that history were to come about."
"It is in these trade offs that my approach differs most from the others."
"It would be better to find a widespread sort of ambiguity, a sort we would believe in no matter what we thought about pain, and show that it will solve our problem."
"On the other hand, a movement is learnt, or embodies a habit, if it is due to previous experience of similar situations, and is not what it would be if the animal had had no such experience."
"It's cold,' and the rest; it is as if to say 'It's milk.'"
"Originally published in."
"is who there plays the role of Holmes."
"I am inclined to believe that it is reducible to the chance like character of the sequences; that it may be derived from the fact that these sequences are free."
"People don't come to blows over it, for example."
"And if they mean the same thing why should I not say: When he says 'Slab!'"
"Hanard University Prc<U+FFFD>s"
"And still I do not believe that something noble uniquely has, where is Hume's unknown essence.)"
"It should be remembered, in this context, that almost all the problems of traditional epistemology are connected with the problem of the growth of knowledge."
"William James, in order to shew that thought is possible without speech, quotes the recollection of a deaf mute, Mr. Ballard, who wrote that in his early youth, even before he could speak, he had had thoughts about God and the world."
"A mark of the intrusion of collateral information, except when the in formation is generally shared as in the exa mples of the kibitzer and the rabbit fly was discrepancy in stimulus meaning from speaker to speaker of the same language."
"Now I don't know if I'm going to have a chance to defend this particular view, but it's an example of a surprising one."
"Mind, Matter, and Method, edited by."
"Those among us who are unwilling to expose their ideas to the hazard of refutation do not take part in the scientific game."
"These are the mainstay of scientific theory,' and they call upon the full re lIrces of the real num<U+FFFD> bers."
"This is meant as a schematic caricature of the experiment a method."
"Almost all the extensive recent literature seeking alternatives to the orthodox approach"
"Hold everything else fixed after making one change, and you will not have a possible world at all."
"There is, for example, a habit of remembering a unique event."
"As regards auxiliary hypotheses we propose to lay down the rule that only those are acceptable whose introduction does not diminish the degree of falsifiability or testability of the system in question, but, on the contrary, increases it."
"As I am about to derive such far reaching consequences from the assumption that precise 'non predictive' measurements of this type are possible, it seems proper to discuss the admissibility of this assumption."
"But how do I understand this?"
"He also advances two criticisms against my discussion."
"At the opposite extreme, a suitable context might deliver a hyperessentialist counterpart relation one on which nothing has any counterpart except itself."
"Functions from indices to truth values are commonly identified with propositions (especially if the indices consist of possible worlds and little else)."
"could imply that every tuple of states describable in its mechanical vocabulary, except for the tuple named by."
"It is a familiar idea that personhood might admit of degrees."
"Dretske, who, as we (and Nozick himself) have seen, proposed a counterfactual theory of knowledge and denied deductive closure long before Nozick, states, '"
"Thus the fact which we express by saying that Edward was father of George, obviously does not simply consist in Edward, George, and the relation of fatherhood."
"Why do we say a proposition is something remarkable?"
"We think of a cause as something that makes a difference, and the difference it makes must be a difference from what would have happened without it."
"This seems to me so clear, that I wonder how anyone can deny it; and perhaps nobody would."
"my sense of the term."
"But we must beware, for also it can spread error."
"By treating quasi miracles as a weighty respect of dissimilarity, I make it turn out that there are no quasi miracles of any kind, and hence there is no quasi miraculous convergence, at any of the most similar worlds where Nixon pressed the button."
"Usually, when a proper name is passed from link to link, the way the reference ofthe name is fixed is oflittle importance to us."
"I can't be making a mistake, but some day, rightly or wrongly, I may think I realize that I was not competent to judge."
"Slote, The Theory of Important Criteria, Journal of Philosophy"
"Just as mathematics is to be reduced to logic, or logic and set theory, so natural knowledge is to be based somehow on sense experience."
"The aspects A are not essentially three dimensional; a black cross on a white ground is not essentially a cross with a white surface in the background."
"To illustrate: on this hypothesis, enough purely historical information would suffice to tell a reasonable believer whether the half life of radon is days or."
"If two expressions are combined by means of the sign of equality, that means that they can be substituted for one another."
"But this means that we not only have a functional relationship from the parts to the whole, but a converse functional relationship, in effect a one to one relation."
"I said that perfect convergence would take a big, widespread, varied miracle a miraculously perfect cover up job."
"This also is certain."
"We certainly do make some of our beliefs true."
"And, since we are concerned with what is called thought, we must pay more attention than we otherwise should do to the private as opposed to the social use of language."
"But his project and his troubles are not mine."
"It is because the sense is the way the reference or Bedeutung is specified."
"so that in this sense images would not be sense data."
"See Qume, TheorieS and Things."
"See Although it partially anticipates the present approach, it was unknown to me when I did the work."
"if and only if the relative number of occurrences of any given pair, triplet,. ."
"This does not strike me as a very plausible form of skepticism."
"But I do not have the time to go into this here."
"An unpromising setting, this, in which to explore and exploit verbal dispositions."
"It might be said: if you have given yourself a private definition of a word, then you must inwardly undertake to use the word in suchand such a way."
"In order to get this, let us first get a means of expressing with regard to some one particular relational property, the proposition that is internal to any term which possesses it."
"Then the analogues of and in semantical form can be rendered:, implies alternation of and Nec the conditional of with the alternation of a jJ."
"Say: Yes, this pen is blunt."
"Robert Stalnaker, A Theory of Conditionals, in Nicholas Rescher, ed., Studies in Logical Theory (Oxford: Blackwell,."
"As a natural result of this state of affairs, it has come to be thought that the public senses give us knowledge of the outer world, while the private senses only give us knowledge as to our own bodies."
"To put the same point differently, suppose we ask, 'why do we have proper names at all?'"
"(Otherwise Beaney follows the Geach Stoothoff translation in the text of the paper.)"
"(p), if had not been true, would not have been used, and another method would have been If there are any 'relevance logicians' among the readers of the present paper, then one would have to note that the counterfactuals presumably imply the corresponding relevant conditionals."
"How can we explain the fact that from incalculability that is, from ignorance we may draw conclusions which we can interpret as statements about empirical frequencies, and which we then find brilliantly corroborated in practice?"
"One is taught so to associate words with words and other stimulations that there emerges something recognizable as talk of things, and not to be distinguished from truth about the world."
"However, as we have already seen, to put it that way is to misdescribe the situation."
"The effect ensues, just as it would probably have done without my act."
"We can wait and see whether or not we have been living with a harmless ambiguity."
"Second, along the way, some of the advocates of the doctrine presuppose or even state various supposed Gricean principles, allegedly based on the distinction between the literal truth and when it can be misleading to say it (owing to conversational implicature)."
"And how will he know again in the future what remembering feels like?"
"is the star seen over there in the morning, because there are possible worlds in which Phosphorus was not visible in the morning."
"We commit ourselves to an ontology containing numbers when we say there arc prime numbers rger than a million; we commit urselves to an ontology containing centaurs when we say there arc centaurs; and we commit ourselves to an ontol ogy containing Pegasus when we say Pega sus is."
"What would be the case if there were an unfulfilled chance of C?"
": How can I ever come to know that these sensibles have a source at all?"
"How can the standard algorithm explain the presuppositions here?"
"All this should have been clear without help of our liberal notion of physical object, but this notion drives the point home."
"But I do mean to include what (we should say)"
"From this passage it becomes clear what the concept of simplicity is actually expected to achieve: it is to provide a measure of the degree of law likeness or regularity of events."
"The other kind arises when the object of sense is complex, and we subject it to some degree of analysis."
"For if the pair occurs in (A) more often than in (B), then in sufficiently long segments of the pair must appear more often at certain characteristic distances apart than at other distances."
"The common degrees of these are easily distinguished, though it is not impossible but in particular instances they may very nearly approach to each other."
"Is it not also perfectly possible that my image of the sound a and his correspond to different physiological processes?"
"Now suppose someone assents to 'Not all who believe that doctors are happy believe that physicians are happy.'"
"for instance, might have a common meaning represented by a base structure something like this."
"An other problem was the necessity of mathematical truth."
"four dimensional (as is that of parabolas),"
"also section and appendix ix.)"
"and <U+2206>px, then we can physically carry out such a selection that is, physically separate the particles only if both ranges are made sufficiently great to satisfy the equation"
"But it is important that the signs 'p' and '~p' can say the same thing."
"says that the quoted words refer autonymously to themselves."
"The light that forms of the external world impinges on the two dimen sional rbcr and it a Berkeley's awareness of a set his problem."
"In Donald Davidson, Truth and Meaning, Syntbese ): and elsewhere."
"Besides, even if something of the sort did recur in all cases, it would still depend on the circumstances that is, on what happened before and after the pointing whether we should say He pointed to the shape and not to the colour."
"In short, I suggest that the mysterious asymmetry between open future and fixed past is nothing else than the asymmetry of counterfactual dependence."
"If logic has primitive ideas, they must be independent of one another."
"Christopher Peacocke ('Proper Names, Reference, and Rigid Designation,' in: Meaning, Reference, and Necessity,."
"Perhaps I can say the same sort of thing about this non serious language use as I did about non literal language use."
"Enduring things are timelike streaks: wholes composed of temporal parts, or stages, located at various times and places."
"In this case, these are respectively the intension of 'command', which determines that the mood is imperative, and the intension of the embedded sentence meaning, corresponding to the sentence radical 'that you are late'."
"But I have already had occasion to notice that he seems to speak as if to say that we can verify an idea"
"Now, Kaplan calls some statements Frege makes about the first person 'tortured', though later he says that reinterpreted in the light of his own theory, Frege could be thought of as talking about the character of 'I', and that under such an interpretation this passage (which supposedly 'has provoked few endorsements and much skepticism') could be defended as essentially correct."
"We may regard a human being as an instrument, which makes various responses to various stimuli."
"Those determinists who deny the importance of the individual in history may well argue that had Moses never existed, someone else would have arisen to achieve all that he did."
"No wording is entirely unambiguous, but I trust my meaning is clear."
"The weak desire is indeed equivalent to a desire for I relatedness to future stages."
"Even according to the Frege Russellian view, however, Jones can conclude, using the disquotational principle, and expressing his conclusion in his own idiolect: I believe that Cicero was bald"
"It might be otherwise if were a different sort of world."
"The fact that such deviations occur will be testable, since the <U+FB02>uctuation itself becomes a reproducible effect; and to this effect my earlier arguments apply: <U+FB02>uctuations beyond a certain magnitude (beyond some interval <U+2206>p) must not be reproducible, according to my methodological requirements, nor long sequences of <U+FB02>uctuations in one and the same direction, etc."
"For one thing, it is less certain that our world is indeterministic than that there is an asymmetry between open future and fixed past whatever that may turn out to be."
"A fully generalized proposition, like every other proposition, is composite."
"This, in turn, can be any object that occupies space and time."
"scheme, but only in favor some clearer or simpler and no less ade quate"
"We must somehow deny that we have here a genuine event of omission."
"For, in so far as this proposition rests on our not miscounting or miscalculating and on our senses not deceiving us as we calculate, both propositions, the arithmetical one and the physical one, are on the same level."
"Similarly, then, for in relation to believes that. . .'; a systematic agreement in truth value can be claimed, and no more."
"In contrast, 'and' and 'but', on my view, though not theirs, are not differently spelled expressions with the same meanings."
"anything on which an event in the history depends is itself an event in the history."
"We might reasonably construe that to mean that no information received between and the present is evidentially relevant to whether the coin fell heads, with evidential relevance construed in the usual way in terms of credence."
"Thus consider the law of excluded middle, which I cited in Two Dogmas to illustrate my claim that 'no statement is immune to revi sio."
"It is best to speak simply of unacceptability, since it may well be that the three sorts of unacceptability I have mentioned are not the only sorts that can give rise to a shift in salience."
"No philosopher, I think, has ever failed to assume that observation does give a reason for some generalisations for some propositions which assert that when one kind of thing exists, another generally exists or has existed in a certain relation to it."
"Our confidence or lack of confidence in the accuracy of a memory image must, in fundamental cases, be based upon a characteristic of the image itself, since we cannot evoke the past bodily and compare it with the present image."
"Re Beliefs about Natural Numbers'."
"To defeat the argument it seems necessary to revise my counterpart theory by providing for a multiplicity of counterpart relations."
"But don't we at least mean something quite definite when we look at a colour and name our colour impression?"
"Does this mean that it is nonsense ever to raise the question whether dreams really take place during sleep, or are a memory phenomenon of the awakened?"
"But in each case it is only the sensation that ought, in strictness, to be called a datum."
"Certainly the member of you are talking about is someone very different in many of his properties from Nixon."
"The latter discussion seems to favor a treatment similar to what is brie<U+FB02>y stated at the end of section of Quine and rejected in favor of a 'more suggestive treatment' (Quine."
"But word got around."
"(C) implies (W), which implies (T), which implies (N)."
"Postscript to Probabilities of Conditionals and Conditional Probabilities"
"For it is perfectly imaginable that the formula should occur to him and that he should nevertheless not understand."
"he succeeds he exclaims:"
"The same observations show that much of what Bennett says in his review of your paper and others is wrong."
"Must it connect counterfactuals rigidly to covering laws?"
"A picture presents a situation in logical space, the existence and non existence of states of affairs."
"In reality, however, we quite readily say that a particular colour exists; and that is as much as to say that something exists that has that colour."
"(These operations I call truth operations.)"
"Certainly sometimes we can."
"For whereas by thy neighbour in the Old Testament"
"Neither contains modal or other operators, so there is no room for any scope distinctions."
"Assuming that relatedness fades out gradually, every segment that passes the interrelatedness test to a significant degree also flunks the maximality test to almost the same degree."
"They get only correlated sensations."
"This paragraph begins his section entitled 'Knowledge of Necessities.' treats empirical truths."
"Since is supposed to be able to detect the absence of the feature, this means that he would not believe that, and hence would not believe that"
": If Frege's view of names like 'Aristotle' in natural language makes his view problematic, as I think it does, then, modifying a suggestion of Devitt and Sterelny, I would call it 'the problem of unwanted idiolects'."
"Nor do I take rigidity to be an alternative criterion for naming to replace Russell's alleged opposed criterion."
"Suppose, however, that Nixon's assertions about Watergate are evenly balanced between the true and the false, except for one problematic case, Everything Jones says about Watergate is true."
"and if then q' to 'q'."
"Desire, like knowledge, is, of course, in one sense an observable phenomenon."
"I hold that the choice of any particular theory is an act, a practical matter."
"The matter has been in some dispute in recent philosophy."
"I do not say that it is true."
"If the principle is unsound, we have no reason to expect the sun to rise to morrow, to expect bread to be more nourishing than a stone, or to expect that if we throw ourselves off the roof we shall fall."
"(It just might be analytic that nothing is a dragon unless it breathes fire."
"In defining coextensiveness I lumped predicates, general terms, and open sentences together."
"When translating one language into another, we do not proceed by translating each proposition of the one into a proposition of the other, but merely by translating the constituents of propositions."
"In general, Frege thinks that such wording leaves an incomplete sense."
"To reach the conclusion, we must also have the premise that the student knows on day that the exam will be given on one of the first days (i.e., (Ei) for some,."
"In fact, a certain number of instances are needed to make us think of two abstractly, rather than of two coins or two books or two people, or two of any other specified kind."
"Just the same account of language is given in Professor Watson's more recent book (reference above)."
"Specifically, with some neurochemical state."
"He took office on January."
"As children learning the language, we get on to various simple terms and key phrases by direct association with appropriate experiences."
"Objection: It is circular to define the meaning in of sentences in terms of the beliefs held by members of."
"Let us say that I could have rendered a proposition false in the weak sense iff"
"Presumably, however, on Sosa's account it is about the Eiffel Tower."
"I have distinguished the standard resolution of vagueness from the sort that permits backtracking only so that I can ask you to ignore the latter."
"This applies especially to those empiricists who follow the <U+FB02>ag of 'positivism'."
"Must I not begin to trust somewhere?"
"But, suppose the letter has been destroyed; suppose there is no copy of it, nor any trustworthy record of what was said in it; suppose there is no other witness as to what I said in it, beside myself and my correspondent?"
"Again the truth I is carried, by that same substitution, into the false hood."
"My reply here is that the rule, every time it (recursively) specifies a reference, also implicitly gives a sense, since Frege's theory is that to determine a reference is to give a sense."
"Perhaps according to me the truth should not be put in terms of saying that it is necessary that there should be no unicorns, but just that we can't say under what circumstances there would have been unicorns."
"It is not only colours and sounds and"
"We can continue in this fashion to any desired point, circumscribing one primitive a fter an other by convention, and rendering conventi all true all known truth, which under ordinary usage are truths essentially volvmg only the lo cutions treated up to that point."
"Objection: It makes no sense to say that a mere string of sounds or of marks can bear a meaning or a truth value."
"He declares that any assertion with regard to such matters, which is not founded on experience, can be nothing but sophistry and illusion and that all books which are composed of such assertions should be committed to the flames."
"Second edition, pp.)"
"These same purposes govern also the ontological decision the determination of the range of quan tification; for clearly the present tentative ontologv of physical ohj ects and classes will be abandoned forthwith when we find an alternative which serves those purposes better."
"This procedure has no natural end."
"means of various descriptions."
"Some knowledge of past events, for example what we learn through reading history, is on a par with the knowledge we can acquire concerning the future: it is obtained by inference, not (so to speak) spontaneously."
"Such conventions would turn on certain subtle consider ations which will not be entered upon here."
"But that it can, everyone, I think, assumes."
"We have merely to supply quo tation marks, thus rewriting and"
"In a rough and ready way the apparatus of quantification and identity over these fictional characters is available to us in ordinary language."
"If the chances in turn somehow supervene on history, then we have Humean supervenience of the laws as well; if not, not."
"(See for example my paper 'Three Views Concerning Human Knowledge', in Contemporary British Philosophy, and 'A Note on Berkeley as a Precursor of Mach', in The British Journal for the Philosophy of Science pp."
"How can one possibly defend such a view?"
"It is certainly possible that a time may come, in the far future, when ideas, which are not true, will hardly ever, if ever, be expedient."
"This argument, to me historically, was directed against idealism: the emphatic part of it was the assertion that the colour is physical, not psychical."
"We could instead have proceeded in two steps."
"Pie can then say, eg At this word for the first time I had the feeling: 'now I am reading'."
"So it has no causes or effects at all."
"For example, 'the number of planets' denotes eight, speaking of a counterfactual situation where there would have been eight planets (and 'the number of planets is even' is true of such a situation)."
"He seems, in fact, to base it merely upon the general untenable theory, that utility belongs to all true ideas, and to none but true ones; that this is what truth means."
"Is it not the case that I have, so to speak, a whole series of props in readiness, and am ready to lean on one if another should be taken from under me and vice versa?"
"They threaten to prove too much namely, that no event is ever the disjunction of others.)"
"The propositions of mathematics are equations, and therefore pseudo propositions."
"That is to say, it is suggested by the fact that the two hypotheses differ in some respect; and it makes use of this difference to refute (at least) one of them."
"Here are these other possible worlds."
"For then it means: that is how we use it."
"Even in version, let alone version, the statement only apparently expresses a relation between, and."
"I will begin by setting down in advance the main conclusions which will emerge from my analysis."
"For Descartes, although I may still exist if my body were stripped away and I were still thinking, as long as that has not occurred, I am a unity including my whole body."
"No. are material objects."
"Imagine a smart data bank."
"It is possible indeed possible even according to the old conception of logic to give in advance a description of all 'true' logical propositions."
"In this case visual images serve, somewhat imperfectly it is true, the purpose which visual sensations would otherwise serve."
"We know that all these rather crude expectations of uniformity are liable to be misleading."
"For these I need not only to know the senses of the English words, as I have just been taught, but also their indirect senses.'"
"It would be wrong for me not to mention the phenomena most favorable to Donnellan's intuitions."
"And similarly he could not create a world in which the proposition 'p' was true without creating all its objects."
"So there is a good deal here to sort out and organize."
"On the other hand, if had not believed via, then, given normally reasonable assumptions about self awareness, he would not have believed that he believed it (via M) either, and hence (normally) would not have believed that."
"But it is no simple matter to overcome the difficulties that arise."
"It does not matter whether itself, the actual chance of the effect, is high or low."
"Even if Fred's nap was his omission of precautions, it is one thing to suppose that this very event did not occur, and it is another thing to suppose that no event that occurred (this or any other) was an omission of the precautions."
"I believe that there is a chair over there."
"Consider the following two dialogues:"
"Thus this sort of self evidence is an absolute guarantee of truth."
"You can draw one; for none has so far been drawn."
"It is not the purpose of this view to leave any aspect of life out of account."
"it is desirable should win."
"For the moment, I shall not stop to analyse it, but shall content myself with saying that, in this respect, memory resembles the knowledge derived from the senses."
"To repeat: This is how things are had that position only because it is itself what one calls an English sentence."
"any more than It is morning said in the morning contradicts It is afternoon said in the afternoon."
"Since, however, we are unable to give the number of names with different meanings, we are also unable to give the composition of elementary propositions."
"Ask yourself: On what occasion, for what purpose, do we say this?"
"The shared stage does the thinking for both of the continuants to which it belongs."
"It may be that any continuant that links those stages is both interrelated and maximal only at a single delineation."
"If you search in a figure (i) for another figure, and then find it, you see (i) in a new way."
"Just as our vague and shifty standards of fragility may leave it unsettled whether we have a fragile effect, so they may leave it unsettled whether we have a fragile intermediate."
"Now suppose that the tool with the name is broken."
"hence that 'nec' as a sentence oper ator under quantifiers is a mistak"
"He has only to look about him, if he is indoors, to judge with regard to various things which he is seeing, such things as That is a window"
"Jones believes that: Cicero was bald' (or: 'Jones believes that: the man who denounced Catiline was bald')."
"If I wanted to doubt the existence of the earth long before my birth, I should have to doubt all sons of things that stand fast for me."
"In other words, we must describe counterfactual situations purely qualitatively and then ask the question, 'Given that the situation contains people or things with such and such qualities, which of these people is (or is a counterpart of Nixon, which is Carswell, and so on?'"
"But there is a more fundamental form of the law of su bstitutivity of identity, which involves no constant singular terms, but only variables of quantification; viz.: (x)(y)"
"This is true even though many lexica will generate infintely many compound expressions."
"It is quite usual; so why do we find it paradoxical?"
"It is commonly argued that people are not to blame for unconscious motives, but only for conscious ones."
"I can see no reason whatever for this assumption."
"Evans has argued with some limited success that there is a Strawsonian strain in Frege's later manuscripts, though it is not in 'U¨ber Sinn und Bedeutung' (Frege to my knowledge."
"When an act of believing occurs, there is a complex, in which 'believing' is the uniting relation, and subject and objects are arranged in a certain order by the 'sense' of the relation of believing."
"And we allow a cause to be only one indispensable part, not the whole, of the total situation that is followed by the effect in accordance with a law."
"(using,.g., the words (' know."
"Hence it is not possible to obey a rule 'privately': otherwise thinking one was obeying a rule would be the same thing as obeying it."
", if Othello believes truly that Desdemona loves Cassio, then there is a complex unity, 'Desdemona's love for Cassio', which is composed exclusively of the objects of the belief, in the same order as they had in the belief, with the relation which was one of the objects occurring now as the cement that binds together the other objects of the belief."
"(Which is not to say that they are alike.)"
"If I am acquainted with a thing which exists, my acquaintance gives me the knowledge that it exists."
"And this sensation advises me of the movement?"
"On Designating.' Mind."
"I subdivide preemption into early and late."
"As we saw above, even for 's original belief that these conditions often could be built into a narrower specification of the method used."
"I resolved not to cavil over 'concrete,' but I suspect that the sense of 'concrete' in which facts are concrete is not one that need endear them to us."
"To readers who are thorougWy mdlar th tens nal semantics the rough outline of a presentation of my Views these terms should be clear without an explicit development."
"She did not satisfy Nozick's fourth condition for knowing that a photon was emitted, contrary to our intuition that she does know."
"Has the name 'Moses' got a fixed and unequivocal use for me in all possible cases?"
": Previously we pointed out that a bilingual may learn 'lapin' and 'rabbit' normally in each respective language yet wonder whether they are one species or two, and that this fact can be used to generate a paradox analogous to Pierre's."
"dId Grundgesetze der"
"It is a different concept (A different game.)"
"in what sense are they two"
"If we believe we have found a criterion, this belief itself may be mistaken; we should be begging the question if we tried to test the criterion by applying the criterion to itself."
"We can change the letter to avoid amhiguity in case onc relative clause is embedded in another."
"On a Unitary Semantical Analysis for Definite and Indefinite Descriptions'."
"Schlick had already earlier held that the causal principle should be placed on a par with natural laws."
"Indeed, however great may be the difference between the Old Testament and the New in respect of comparative insistence on ideal rules rather than rules of duty, I am inclined to think that there is at least as great a difference, illustrated by this very rule, in another, quite different, respect namely in the kind of rules, both ideal and of duty, which are insisted on."
"I gather that Hesperus might have turned out not to be Phosphorus."
"And indeed it is easy to imagine cases of partial blindness, or of rudimentary prosthetic vision, in which the counterfactual dependence is unsatisfactory and it is therefore doubtful whether the subject may be said to see."
"The first definition makes 'pasteurized' an individual concept; the second makes it a universal concept"
"view of the arguments of Attitudes De Dicta and De Se (in this volume), I withdraw my statement that implicit knowledge, belief, etc. are relative modalities, expressible by quantification over restricted ranges of worlds."
"It would seem then not"
"It owes elements still to nat ural selection notably, the similarity standards that cont nue to operate at the observational level."
"If we compare our system of knowledge with theirs then theirs is evidently the poorer one by far."
"It is not indeed experimenta lly sig nificant as it stands, simply because of the lack, noted earlier, of a sepa rate criterion for usage or meaning."
"We sometimes say: in later life I will be a different person."
"Only let it not be supposed that any clarity is gained by restituting the intensions."
"I could imagine Moore being captured by a wild tribe, and their expressing the suspicion that he has come from somewhere between the earth and the moon."
"misconceived notion of a synthetic statement which is a priori valid,"
"The question Is what you see composite?"
"For when it appears as a sign for identity, it symbolizes in an entirely different way the signifying relation is a different one therefore the symbols also are entirely different in the two cases: the two symbols have only the sign in common, and that is an accident."
"But if he trusts me he will not only accept my information, he will also draw definite conclusions from my conviction, as to how I shall behave."
"That's how it must be.''."
"For meaning, supposedly, is what a sentence shares with its translation; and translation at the present stage turns solely on correlations with non verhal stimulation."
"Has Bruce noticed the cat?"
"(These pictures are as it were idle."
"Of course, if when we hear his beliefs about Walter Scott we find that they are actually lUuch more nearly true of Salvador Dali, then according to this theory the reference of thIs name is going to be Mr. Dali, not Scott."
"He thereby weakens the Centering Assumption to this: each world is self accessible, and at least as close to itself as any other world is to it."
"These we know to exist."
"The general propositional form is the essence of a proposition."
"Not only yes no questions but other questions as well correspond to performative sentences."
"So is but unlike has few if any parts that duplicate the corresponding parts of."
"In the case of names one might make this distinction too."
"(The man 'over there' may be Smith and not Jones.)"
"But then they make a tacit presupposition."
"We will also not have to worry about the logic of definite descriptions."
"But when applied to non observational sentences like 'Bachelor' it bears little resemblance to what might reasonably be called meaning."
"My proposals are in the tradition of referential, or model theoretic, semantics descended from Frege, Tarski, Carnap (in his later works), and recent work of Kripke and others on semantic foundations of intensional logic."
"The trouble with using quasi miracles as a weighty respect of dissimilarity is that it seems to prove too much, more than is true."
"There is no such distinction to be drawn."
"What is one really thinking of here?"
"I look at a field and judge correctly that there is a dog there."
"or something like that"
"Of course, one can reduce the description of the use of the word slab to the statement that this word signifies this object."
"No; someone might go on having veridical hallucinations for a long time."
"From that, with a trivial partition of Z's, we can immediately recover my first definition of expected utility."
"They all rest upon the assumption that, if a certain kind of thing exists at a certain time in a certain place, certain other kinds of things cannot exist at the same time in the same place."
"I do not, indeed, think that the word 'reality' is commonly used to include 'percipi':"
"He has to hold that we are under some illusion in thinking that we can imagine that there could have been pains without brain states."
"To a human being who meets him in ordinary circumstances?"
"That is, where we ought to have said: this language game is played."
"Only if you believe on independent grounds that considerations of causal role and physical realization have no bearing on whether a state is pain should you say that they have no bearing on how that state feels."
"The subclass relation corresponds very well to the intuitive 'more' and 'fewer', but it suffers from the disadvantage that this relation can only be used to compare the two classes if one includes the other."
"The logically less probable statement entai the logically more probable one."
"Even if such an explanation rather tempts us, we need only think for a moment of what actually happens in order to see that we are going astray here."
"I do not really intend, however, to single out one of the sequences."
"Thus the rule that theories should have the highest attainable degree of testability (and thus allow only the narrowest range) entails the The concept of range (Spielraum) was introduced by von Kries ); similar ideas are found in Bolzano."
"If mind and body are to interact, we are at a loss for a plausible mech anism to the pllrpose."
"With this definition, we can define a sensation as the non mnemic elements in a perception."
"There is a second advantage."
"According to this view, the logic of scientific discovery would be identical with inductive logic, ie with the logical analysis of these inductive methods."
"(If stands in one of these relations to a, I call a successor of a.)"
"It would come to make sense in general to say that there is an object which, independently of any particular means of specifying it, is necessarily thus and so."
"my Postscript, sections text between notes and and end of .)"
"Was he really doomed to failure even though anerstwhile skeptic can know from his proof that God exists?"
"This describes the table by means of the sense data."
"Sosa's later, weaker characterization of the case is very misleading."
"Some discrepancies he may sift out, as lately suggested, by varying his times and informants."
"Taking a hint from Russell, we may speak a context as referentially o/Jaque when, by putting a statement rp into that context, we can cause a purely referential occurrence in rp to be not purely referential in the whole context.g., the context:. ."
"The choice of that purpose must, of course, be ultimately a matter of decision, going beyond rational argument."
"Finally, there is the formal problem of defining truth and falsehood, and deriving the objective reference of a proposition from the meanings of its component words."
"I said that these secondary considerations would never turn a clear positive into a clear negative or hardly ever."
"Then 'chaud,' in French, would be true of the things that are called 'cold' in English!"
"And that some sense might be given to the expression in the same place as, in which it could be true that sensibles of all sorts of different shapes and sizes, and of all sorts of different colours, were in the same place at the same time"
"However, there are variant formulations of the method of weakening a statement to destroy the third condition, ways to add a disjunct to a statement so that the disjunction violates the third condition, where both disjuncts are true."
"Probability is moved around but not created or destroyed, so the probabilities of worlds still sum to."
"planet should have been inhabited by creatures sensitive to heat in this way."
"Fx' uniquely determines bur is not analytically equivalent to 'Fx', even though be an intensional objcr."
"But are the processes which I have described here understanding!"
"And even if they do have referents, we can ask whether, say, Moses or Napoleon really existed."
"The case of the inguist and his newly discovered heathen, finally, differs sim ply in that the linguist has to grope for a general sentence to sentence correlation that will make the public circumstances of the heathen's af firmations and denials match up tolera bly with the circumstances of the linguist's own."
"But this seems to me to be plainly untenable."
"Of course I don't imply that language contains a name for every object."
"their meaning is that without which they would have no meaning."
"What are these contexts?"
"He might obtain by using the following Principle of Saturation: any sentence saying that there exists an understandable being of so"
"I confess that I have not taken Evans's other writings on de se attitudes into account."
"I am using in their place undefinable universal names which are established only by linguistic usage."
"But that is the general propositional form."
"We have to consider what binds together two simultaneous sensations in one person, or, more generally, any two occurrences which forte part of one experience."
"I mean that, in attempting to state the cause of the present event, some past event or events must be included, unless we take refuge in hypothetical modifications of brain structure."
"Don't I know, then, which game I want to play until I have played it?"
"(There is a genuinely unspecific want, namely wanting that I either own or enjoy the company of some cat."
"Now, what language does a person use when describing counterfactual possibilities?"
"But it works because the agent's beliefs about causal dependence are such as to make it work."
"It seems to me that Nozick is quite wrong about this; his third condition does not capture the idea of 'relevant alternatives,' even in the very case of the barn."
"I shall omit mention of these exceptional cases in the remainder of this paper."
"Something exists in reality, than which nothing greater can be conceived."
"Consider what makes it possible in the case of physical objects to speak of two exactly the same for example, to say This chair is not the one you saw here yesterday, but is exactly the same as it."
"Nor, indeed, was Tarski's truth paradigm intended to assert analytic equivalence."
"We arc after aderstanding ofence as an institution or process the world, and we do not intend that understanding to be any better than the science which is its object."
"The thesis of rigidity does of course imply interchangeability of codesignative names in modal contexts, subject to the usual caveat about possible nonexistence."
"I have had two ideas that and not one only."
"What, in view of these two principles, can be the sense in which my five propositions are true?"
"Tis uniquely realized by an tuple of entities named, respectively, by,."
"it satisfies these three requirements."
"that resembled tigers but were not tigers."
"But what this means is: the application of the concept of imaginary numbers is less like that of real numbers than appears from the look of the calculations."
"Apart from the special doctrines advocated by Kant, it is very common among philosophers to regard what is a priori as in some sense mental, as concerned rather with the way we must think than with any fact of the outer world."
"in some (I hope) nonpejorative sense."
"After all, the desire to be found in the stage in this case is no different from the desire that would be there if were what it takes itself to be: a stage of a single person with no fission in his future."
"Given a suitable pattern of counterfactual dependence of visual experience on the scene before the eyes (including both the actual case and its counterfactual alternatives) it is redundant to say as I did that the scene causes, or would cause, the visual experience."
"Once we realize that this correspondence cannot be one of structural similarity, the task of elucidating this correspondence seems hopeless; and as a consequence, we may become suspicious of the concept of truth, and prefer not to use it."
"And on what experience is our assumption based?"
"It is, he says, thoughts in this sense that are essential to thinking."
"and this is to say just that he has visual experience."
"Dcmarcation is not my purpose."
"No one would choose this way of expressing himself if he merely meant to say that some things are mutable."
"propose to look at science in a way which is slightly different from that favoured by the various psychologistic schools: I wish to distinguish sharply between objective science on the one hand, and 'our knowledge' on the other."
"Also, as before, it is in the analytic or word by word relations of the sentence to others that theory comes in, vary ng degrees."
"The conclusions from this fact that interest me have nothing to do with these things."
"But what about the proposition that I am not exactly four years, two months and sixteen days old?"
"Whether he himself really means to assert these things which his words imply I do not know."
"Most people would see that any attempt to base logical statements on protocol sentences is a case of psychologism."
"philosophische Kritik,."
"Nobody thinks that real life explainers commonly serve up full arguments which they hope are correct."
"Next, we define the terminal string of a phrase marker as the expression obtained by concatenating, in order, the expressions at the terminal nodes of."
"It is the truth only inasmuch as it an unmoving foundation of his language games."
"As we saw in the preceding lecture, the word dog is useful, partly, because two instances of this word are much more similar than (say) a pug and a great dane."
"We could reinterpret 'Tabitha' as designating no longer the cat, but the whole cosmos minus the cat; or, again, as designating the cat's singleton, or unit class."
"They do not say, 'How do we know that this quality (in another possible world) is that of redness?'"
"Reprinted in Essays in Radical Empiricism (Longmans, Green and Co., pp."
"The problem illustrated by the example seems to be this: in some cases a method may clearly and decisively lead to believe that, and do so properly."
"The stuff of the world, so far as we have experience of it, consists, on the view that I am advocating, of innumerable transient particulars such as occur in seeing, hearing, etc., together with images more or less resembling these, of which I shall speak shortly."
"What the values of the variable are is something that is stipulated."
"That's enough for the present discussion."
"(A) C(A/ T), (A) C(A/ T) C(A/ T)"
"There is one movement, among those that James mentions at first, which is not subsequently classified, namely, the stumbling."
"A working ap preciation of something like 'natural kinds: a tendency anyway to re spond in different degrees to different differences, has to be there before the word 'red' can be learned."
"But they are not quite as choosy as can be, for neither god cares much which of the two he is."
"If is denumerable but is not, the construction with truth alone closes off at a countable ordinal, but the construction with satisfaction may close off at an uncountable ordinal."
"Imagine the following blatantly fictional situation."
"Now that we have shown that the uncertainty relations are formally singular probability statements, we can also unravel the tangled web of their objective and subjective interpretations."
"I haven't studied their paper in detail, except to note its basic claims, but my respect for the authors is such that I assume that their results are correct."
"Can we really suppose that Mary knows that a photon has been emitted and gone to the right, but not that a photon has been emitted simpliciter"
"It is of course undeniable that knowledge comes the seeing, but I think it is a mistake to regard the mere seeing itself as knowledge."
"What about the Eiffel Tower?"
"But and were any two worlds that differ in respect of the outcome of a matter of chance no matter how much they may differ in other ways as well!"
"a rc studying how the human subjectof our study posits bodies and proj ects his physics from his data, and we appreciate that our position in the world is just like his."
"I look at an animal and am asked: What do you see?"
"Although Shatz's paper appeared before Nozick's book was published, it appeared too late for Nozick to take it into account."
"This is essential to their purpose."
"Now although the admitted discrepancy between identity and the relation is harmless in itself, and although the I relation is not identity, still it may seem that the Irelation inherits enough of the formal character of identity to lead to trouble."
"Rather than changing the example, I suggest that the reader just assume the appropriate things, even if they are contrary to normal fact."
"Disregarding the surroundings of the two regions, and disregarding any irrelevant events that may be occurring in either region without being part of the process in question, what goes on in the two regions is exactly alike."
"So I don't know, then, that there is a sick man lying here?"
"Not only so, but they apparently discover that the methods of feeding, which suit their own larvae, would prove fatal to the guests, and accordingly they change their whole system of nursing (loc. cit.,."
"certainly just that it is intrinsic a character which is just as incompatible with this objective evolutionary interpretation as with any and every subjective interpretation."
"(I won't go into complications for someone who doesn't believe in or even.)"
"And Wiggins says he might accept the result and plead that, provided a and are proper names, nothing is amiss."
"More important, I shall ignore the possibility that something might be highly salient in one of its guises, but less salient in another."
"But he merely obscures his difficulties when he continues. ."
"This is a question which I wished to discuss at length, because I think that it is one in which there are real difficulties."
"The Principle of Truthfulness constrains the relation between Ao and M: Some of the beliefs and desires ascribed to Karl by Ao in particular, some of those that pertain to speech behavior or responses to it on the part of Karl and his usual partners in conversation should constitute Karl's part of the pattern of attitudes that I have elsewhere called a convention of truthfulness in Karl's language, under the truth conditions assigned by to sentences thereof."
"People often associate colours with vowels."
"What reply could I make to the adults of a tribe who believe that people sometimes go to the moon (perhaps that is how they interpret their dreams), and who indeed grant that there are no ordinary means of climbing up to it or flying there?"
"Some may identify Aristotle as the philosopher who taught Alexander the Great, others as the Stagirite philosopher who studied with Plato."
"If it feels to him like pain, then it is pain, whatever its causal role or physical nature."
"Our clear and simple language games are not preparatory studies for a future regularization of language as it were first approximations, ignoring friction and air resistance."
"To the practical research worker, these questions may be of little concern."
"I did so only because I needed a term not burdened with the connotation of a perception statement."
"The usual presupposition for the consequent is this: Someone walked on the beach last night."
"Certainly, far from all of them."
"The alternative literature abandons the attempt at a mathematical definition of truth, and is content to take it as an intuitive primitive."
"Raking the leaves.' '"
"As we have just seen, the notion of cause is not so reliable as to allow us to infer the existence of something that, by its very nature, can never be observed."
"We commonly mean by 'matter' something which is opposed to 'mind', something which we think of as occupying space and as radically incapable of any sort of thought or consciousness."
"(And if we get into a position where we have to look at the world for an answer to such a problem, that shows that we are on a completely wrong track.)"
"In the languages the apparent ambiguity between referential and attributive definite descriptions is explicitly built into the semantics of the language and affects truth conditions."
"When two systems of analytical hypotheses fit the totality of verbal dispositions to perfection and yet conflict in th eir trans lations of certain sentences, the conflict is precisely a conflict of parts seen without the wholes."
"Those of which it is true, I propose to call internal relational properties, those of which it is false external relational properties."
"That it has, say, just 'come' to him in the manner of a kind of dream?"
"It must, so to speak, wax and wane as a whole."
"I call you, come in through the door."
"First, I've argued that a popular view about how names get their reference in general doesn't apply."
"The sensation of blue, on this view, differs from a blue bead or a blue beard, in exactly the same way in which the two latter differ from one another: the blue bead differs from the blue beard, in that while the former contains glass, the latter contains hair; and the sensation of blue differs from both in that, instead of glass or hair, it contains consciousness."
"For example, we said above that 'tr means 'is a true sentence not involving truth.'"
"And to think one is obeying a rule is not to obey a rule."
"These conditions may be true of no one whatsoever and yet the name Jonah' really has a referent."
"astronomical theory Speaker's Reference and Semantic Reference dictates that that number must be odd."
"If we wish to allow sentences to seek their own levels apparently we must also allow risky sentences."
"The same is not true of what I had in mind for many typical cases of the paradox, where one may avoid contact with the 'misleading' counterevidence altogether for example, by avoiding reading certain books or articles."
"When we have made this distinction, we can say that the image means the past event."
"I turn to stone and my pain goes on."
"A Study in Semantics and Modal Logic."
"So almost anything goes."
"may self ascribe the property of being one slice of an insomniac who lies awake all night on such and such date at suchand such place at such and such a kind of world, and yet may fail to self ascribe the property of being at."
"There is indeed an archaic precedent for confusing sign and objct; the earliest conditioning of the infant's babbling is ambiguous on the point."
"Burge points out that Feigl's translation, though it usually renders 'Sinn' as 'sense', translates one sentence in the footnote"
"In describing language game I said that the words etc. corresponded to the colours of the squares."
"Mr. is the Unionist candidate for this constituency' means 'Mr. is a Unionist candidate for this constituency, and no one else is'. '"
"Nixon is guilty, if Haldeman is (guilty), too."
"We find this belief ready in ourselves as soon as we begin to reflect: it is what may be called an instinctive belief."
"should I really take this as a piece of information, even though a superfluous one?"
"So the phrase 'the thirty seventh President' is nonrigid, but 'Nixon'"
"and they will now be considered a little more closely."
"It is not more necessary than that the absence of pain should be recognized."
"Whatever indeterministic airs these interpretations may give themselves, they all involve the metaphysical idea that not only can we deduce and test predictions, but that, in addition, nature is more or less 'determined' (or 'undetermined'); so that the success (or failure) of predictions is to be explained not by the laws from which they are deduced, but over and above this by the fact that At present I think that the question of the relation between the various interpretations of probability theory can be tackled in a much simpler way by giving a formal system of axioms or postulates and proving that it is satisfied by the various interpretations."
"There is an inclination to say 'Sherlock Holmes never existed'."
"for certain', but then goes on to say: 'At best we can only deal in probabilities."
"<U+25A1><U+2192> (Rules and axioms here and henceforth should be taken as schematic.)"
"However, let us leave that question and think further about the narrowerdomain."
"The Hunter Richter Problem That concludes an exposition and survey of causal decision theory."
": something) wrote Waverley and was a poet, and nothing else wrote Waverley."
"This conclusion holds for certain for various species names, whether they are count nouns, such as 'cat', 'tiger', 'chunk of gold', or mass terms such as 'gold', 'water', 'iron pyrites'."
"Today indeed there a re dissident logicians even at the elementary level, propounding deviations from the law of the excluded middle."
"Suppose, however, that he does not stick to a single method of transcribing, but alters his method according to a simple rule: if he has once written for Ay then he writes for the next, for the next, and so on."
"I cannot even know that any other men will see these things; for I cannot know that any other men exist."
"(b) Often no nuances of 'meaning' are discernible differentiating such names as 'Ashkenaz' and 'Germaniah,' such that we would not say either that Hebrew would have been impoverished had it lacked one of them (or that English is improverished because it has only one name for Germany), any more than a language is impoverished if it has only one word corresponding to substitutivity in this paragraph, we could get yet another paradox analogous to Pierre's: our Hebrew speaker both believes, and disbelieves, that Germany is pretty."
"I think that this question is independent of any view argued in the text."
"(+) while keeping (-) can do so if he is prepared to imagine that another world may sometimes be just as similar to a given world as that world is to itself."
"You are certain that you have raised your arm; isn't this the criterion, the measure, of the recognition?."
"A frequency theory which provides a foundation for all the principal theorems of the calculus of probability was first proposed by Richard von Mises."
"He seems very anxious to insist that reality is mutable: that it does change, and that it is not irrational to hope that in the future it will be different from and much better than it is now."
"First, it's true that someone can use the name 'Cicero' to refer to Cicero and the name 'Tully' to refer to Cicero also, and not know that Cicero is Tully."
"Now how is it that we know that our knowledge must depend thus solely on surface irritation and nternal conditions"
"So a good scene might be surrounded by other good scenes, with no bad ones nearby."
"When we say Certain propositions must be excluded from doubt it sounds as if I ought to put these propositionsfor example, that I am called."
"I do not notice that they are the same."
"on rhe ana logous Tran.lanon and Meamng general law for which he is a;sembling instances"
"Things which we see become associated, by habit, with certain tactile sensations which we expect if we touch them; one of the horrors of a ghost (in many ghost stories) is that it fails to give us any sensations of touch."
"We may well look askance at this reasoning."
"The snake is therefore incapable of concertina movement and could not have climbed the rope."
"Can he possibly have supposed that these were properties which belonged both to all true ideas and also to none but true ones?"
"Its causes are of interest to psychologists."
"It should be borne in mind that when I speak of 'basic statements', I am not referring to a system of accepted statements."
"; I wish only to point out that it is a hypothesis."
"But as we shall see Donnellan is not entirely consistent on this point, and I therefore am not sure whether I am expressing disagreement with him even here.)"
"In different people's private spaces the same object seems to have different shapes; thus the real space, in which it has its real shape, must be different from the private spaces."
"If we switch, then this epistemological remark itself under goes appropriate reinterpretation too; nerve endings and other things give way to appropriate proxies, again without straining any evidence."
"Accordingly, if I am (say) hearing a sound, the only occurrences that are, in any simple sense, simultaneous with my sensation are events in my private world, ie in my biography."
"It would not appear to presuppose the existence of any king of France, let alone to assert it, and the wide scope interpretation is implausible."
"In so doing we should have to proceed in such a way that a statement which lies nearer to the contradiction is always given a higher number than one which lies nearer to the tautology."
"The indefinability of synonymy by to the methodology of analytical hypotheses is formally the same as the indefinabil ity of truth by to scientific method."
"whatever, which I have not myself observed, unless I have observed similar facts in the past and have observed that they were conjoined (directly or indirectly) with facts similar to some fact which I do now observe or remember."
"I mean a set: the set of exactly those possible beings, actual or not, that have the property in question."
"Russell eventually inherited the title himself (and later inherited the title 'Earl Russell')."
"The receptors whose firing is salient in a given stimulus are the ones that it shares with all perceptua lly similar stimuli."
"So Nozick's third condition is violated after all, for the newly stated belief."
"But is this all that is meant?"
"rj intension takes a, intension and. ."
"Denoting the two primary properties of an alternative by the figures and, every alternative can be represented as a sequence of ones and zeros."
"Suppose Henry also notes the exact position of a pebble in the field,."
"No one, therefore, can know positively that men in general, are incapable of knowing external facts."
"Nor should we say that the example shows that the term 'duck' is highly contextual or even 'interest relative,' so that if someone is primarily interested in biology, or eating meat, or just seeing an animal moving gracefully in the water or at a zoo, ducks"
"it is just the first of these cases."
"For instance, a law of chance might say that for any tritium atom and any time when it exists, there is such and such chance of that atom decaying within one second after that time."
"An in dividual would at any one time be prompted by the same stimulations to assent to 'Bachelor' and 'Unmarried man'; and similarly for dissent."
"For instance, the following base structure using a binder is equivalent to 'grunts' and might be read loosely as 'is something such that grunts'."
"In indirect discourse we use the type of expression emphasized by Castan~eda and others."
"We observe, however, that his actions are such as are likely to achieve a quite different end, and that is the sort of end that often seems to be aimed at by animals and savages, though civilized people are supposed to have discarded it."
"Thirdly, there is the comparison with other theories, chie<U+FB02>y with the aim of determining whether the theory would constitute a scientific advance should it survive our various tests."
"One might not expect occurrences of statements within state ments to be truth functional, in general, even when the contexts are not referentially opaque; certainly not when the contexts are referentially opaque."
"So there must be perfect order even in the vaguest sentence. '"
"It is enough, anything less is not enough, and anything more is more than enough."
"This means that we shall have to construct a frequency concept which can take over the function of the discarded frequency limit, and which may be applied to all infinite reference sequences."
"The law of attributes that was implicit in our language habits or that fitted in with them most easily was that every statement that mentions a thing at tributes an attribute to it; and this cultural heritage, however venerable, must go."
"His second view, on the other hand, is that it cuts off at once all possibility of our knowing the vast majority of these facts; since he implies that we cannot have any basis in experience for asserting any external fact whatever any fact, that is, except facts relating to our own actual past and future observations."
"If I want to realize the experience of the person in one of the earlier examples, whose writing is guided by the printed text and the table, I imagine 'conscientious' looking up, and so on."
"And yet, if this presented object is not identical with this part of the surface of this inkstand, it certainly is not a part of an inkstand at all; since there is no other part, either of this inkstand or of any other, with which it could possibly be supposed to be identical."
"But, of course, the definition just says 'can be known independently of experience,' and someone might say that if it is true, we could know it independently of experience."
"Don't consider it a matter of course that a person is making a note of something when he makes a mark say in a calendar."
"But what I mean by that is that either both pieces are singlyperforated, or both are doubly perforated, or both are triply perforated, and so on."
"The first of these theories, namely, that which regards discomfort and pleasure as actual contents in those who experience them, has, I think, nothing conclusive to be said in its favour."
"But it depends for its truth upon an instance of a general logical principle."
"Except when A is impossible, he says, there is a unique closest A world."
"Images, on the contrary, though they produce bodily movements, do so according to mnemic laws, not according to the laws of physics."
"The echo of a thought in sight one would like to say."
"In that sense, the example is probably somewhat fictive.)"
"So maybe this distinction is still made."
"(The reason why 'Socrates is identical' means nothing is that there is no property called 'identical'."
"Thus we shall guard against exploiting the ever open possibility just mentioned of. ."
"who mentions Rip van Winkle (in spite of his admiration for Frege's remarks on 'yesterday' and 'today' as anticipating the modern theory of demonstratives)."
"No; I have a differ ent explanation."
"Any specification of something outside the agent's influence is included in a dependency hypothesis"
"(Converse of Barcan's principle)"
"Special thanks are due to John."
"Thedomain of meanings of expressions is hopelessly intensional and in trouble over in dividuation."
"Why have they thought this?"
"And if you do is this process more deserving of our interest than, say,."
"It is interesting to point out that the conclusions to which they were led are not identical but, in fact, incompatible and show the trouble of switching from epistemic to metaphysical considerations."
"It is we who always formulate the questions to be put to nature; it is we who try again and again to put these question so as to elicit a clear cut 'yes' or 'no' (for nature does not give an answer unless pressed for it)."
"If the other hand it is meant merely that the speaker adopts such conventions for those fields but not for others, the characterization is uninteresting; while if it is meant that it is a general practice to adopt such conventions explicitly for those fields but not for others, the first part of the charac terization is false."
"It never occurs to us to take them off. ,"
"Maybe he even was named Sherlock Holmes."
"The photon might well have gone to the left, in which case Mary would have had no beliefs about the matter."
"Replace and by: (!') ')"
"The answer is the same."
"The second intuition is respected to this extent: 'It might indeed turn out that humans have such vast differences in hardware from one to the next (unlike calculators) that the salient kind does after all contain only Karl and some of his counterparts."
"(Think of a circuit built up from exclusive or gates:"
"I and the endpoint chance of its doing so is (I. ."
"I thank Margaret Gilbert for her valuable help in this editing."
"That may be an exclamation; but what foll from it?"
"Like my previous definition of a language, my definition of a grammar is too general: it gives a large superset of the interesting grammars."
"The use of the concepts 'true' and 'false' is quite analogous to the use of such concepts as 'tautology', 'contradiction', 'conjunction', 'implication' and others of the kind."
"J a satisfactory rendering of if then in the indicative mood."
"( where ranges over just any old partition."
"But then, as he says, Russell's example and analysis would be destroyed."
"but not I. instead of"
"See also Weyl, Gruppentheorie und Quantenmechanik, nd edition,."
"The precision of the measurements involved in these tests is not limited by the uncertainty relations."
"My own suggested account of the matter below in terms of a theory of speech acts creates no problem about 'the statement'; it is simply the statement that her husband is kind to her."
"thing to say that if we know that a thermometer or an electric eye (or even a human eye) has the right kind of defect, under certain circumstance the thermometer (or other apparatus) is usable for certain purposes where a better device would fail."
"We can see this from the fact that we understand the sense of a propositional sign without its having been explained to us."
"(I still mean the unreal problem of advancing from omniscience about alone to omniscience also about Ao, Ak, and.)"
"of another kind: for him it is the picture of his image, as it can't be for anyone else."
"They depart to different degrees, and in different directions, from the assignment of sets of possible worlds as prepositional objects."
"and so many days a man can find his way about a house he has been living in."
"or But there can't be a third possibility!"
"The nearest bad scene to it might differ quite substantially."
"You would then have been correct in your initial belief, and, assuming that you were in a good enough position to support your belief rationally, and so on, it would seem you did know this at the earlier date but were rationally persuaded to change your mind."
"wrhen playing with dolls for example."
"I believe that a human being has lived, whom I (i) have seen in such and such places, who looked like this (pictures),"
"There are worlds where cyanoacrylate dissolves in acetone and worlds where it doesn't."
"We might say this without any strain on language."
"If our topic were modality de re, the suitable descriptions would be those that capture the essence of the thing described."
"They do not refer to an individual, restricted, spatio temporal region."
"Even the Holmes stories, not to mention fiction written in less explicit styles, are by no means in the form of straightforward chronicles."
"One can imagine a language, for example, in which '+', and '=' were used in the standard way, but was used as the name of, say, the square root of minus as we should call it, 'i.'"
"But are we to say that nothing is knowledge except what is validly deduced from true premisses?"
"Neurath, op. cit., pp."
"It may be best to adopt a third approach a middle way, drawing on both the alternatives previously considered."
"And exactly analogous observations apply to words heard or written or read."
"Complete radical translation goes on, and analytical hypotheses are indispensahle."
"When the specialized philosophical journal began, I don't know."
"Suppose that, instead of saying Bring me the broom you said Bring me the broomstick and the brush which is fitted on to it."
"He could declare the term syncategorematic, despite grammatical appearances, and then could justify his continued lise of it he could show systematically how to paraphrase as wholes all sentences in which he chose to imhed it."
"Whether or not persons are identical with bodies they occupy, certainly persons are never identical with bodies they do not occupy."
"This, I think, might be offered as an explanation of Mr. Bradley's meaning."
"References Bernstein, Allen."
"footnote, that the translation argument only brings out the arbitrariness of the connection of a given phonetic or written sequence and what it stands for or means."
"So a picture, conceived in this way, also includes the pictorial relationship, which makes it into a picture."
"'nec' we have only to note that and are true and yet this is false:"
"The origins and role of Socrates are not intrinsic even to Socrates taken as a whole."
"Incoherent bch,H' or I': pO%lble, hut there I. lt"
"If I say, 'Gold might have turned out not to be an element,' I seem to mean this metaphysically and my statement is subject to the correction noted in the text."
"Nozick is simply unaware of the ubiquity of the absorption phenomenon (as he is unaware of the fact that in the first class of cases his criterion for preservation of knowledge under deduction is satisfied if one deduces p)."
"But then my eyes would have to be opened."
"Generally speaking: no."
"Clearly there can be borderline cases between the simple and the complex use where, to some extent the speaker wishes to speak of the semantic referent and to some extent he wishes to Speaker's Reference and Semantic Reference similar to those for definite descriptions, if the one case involves no semantic ambiguity while the other does?"
"But was I trying to draw someone's attention to the fact that he is capable of imagining that?"
"The characteristic is not wholly confined to living organisms."
"One doesn't say that 'two plus two equals four' is contingent because people might have spoken a language in which 'two plus two equals four' meant that seven is even."
"Let us return to Jones, who assents to 'Cicero was bald' and to 'Tully was not bald.'"
"The in novator ascends from his suhjectmatter to the formulas and laws them selves, dwells on their simplicity, and shows that they logically imply his strange new hypothesis together with essentials of the antecedent the ory."
"Now a language of this type is extensional, in this sense: any two predicates which agree extensionally that is, are true of the same objcts arc interchangeable salva veritate."
"In the sense in which I can ever bring anything about (such as stomach ache through over eating), I can also bring about an act of willing, In this sense I bring about the act of willing to swirn by jumping into the water."
"There is a switch that both turns off the reliable system and turns on the unreliable system, and I throw this switch."
"Yet with this substitute in use, it would not matter if some things were identical with their counterparts after all!"
"She uses the term 'mere tag'."
"Perhaps none are quadrupedal, none tawny yellow, none carnivorous, and so on; all these properties turn out to be based on optical illusions or other errors, as in the case of gold."
"Epiphenomenalist and parallelist dualism are ruled out as contradictory because they It would do no harm to allow the ser of conditions to be infinite, so long as it is recursive."
"Being a singular term, (x: Fx) may be thought of as defined as a singular description in the obvious way, namely as (/ (V'X) (X."
"However much reason you may get to think that option A will not be realised if holds, you will not if you are rational lower C( quite to zero."
"The simplest hypothesis about the projection problem is the cumulative one: if you have a presupposition to a clause, it is also a presupposition to the whole complex sentence."
"Hoover charged that the Berrigans planned (<U+2203>x)(x is a high official and they kidnap x)."
"Aren't all these people speaking German, a language in which 'I' (actually 'ich') should mean the same thing for anyone?"
"And can we be said really to know any fact, for which we have no better foundation than this?"
"With this definition, what the dogma of internal relations asserts is that in every case in which a given thing actually has a given relational property, the fact that it has that property is a necessary truth; whereas what I am asserting is that, if the property in question is an internal property, then the fact in question will be a necessary truth, whereas if the property in question is external, then the fact in question will be a mere matter of fact."
"But what I am concerned with here is a notion which is not a notion of epistemology but of metaphysics,"
"It might seem that for suitable and we have the following: if is the proposition that the chance, at, of A's holding equals the chance, at, of A's holding in other words, if is the necessary proposition then C(A/"
"We must always eliminate singular terms before translating; afterwards, if we like, we can restore them."
"I am andinking of such a proposition as: The multiplication ,when carried out by people who know how to calculate, will in the great majority of cases give the result."
"The one difference hetween classes and properties, apart from meta phor and free association, is extensionality: a class is determined by its mem bers."
"But do we need a scheme as elaborate as Perry's?"
"lIll', From a Loglcul Pomt of Vlew,. ."
"The first translation of it into English was that of the Quintons, appearing only in."
"Whether these results were valid may well be doubted."
"(This statement is based upon experiment.)"
"failure to appreciate that this legislative trait is a trait of scientific hypotheses very."
"Do you perhaps inwardly shake your head?"
"We know that for logicians (formerly at any rate) the concept is the simple and primitive element; next comes the judgment, uniting two or several concepts; then ratiocination, combining two or several judgments."
"A touch which was still painful yesterday is no longer so today."
"I see the figure as a box means: I have a particular visual experience which I have found that I always have when I interpret the figure as a box"
"The term 'god' turns out to be ambiguous."
"In terms of the modern discussion of the projection problem they re<U+FB02>ect the so called cumulative hypothesis of Langendoen and Savin."
"He will come to the party, if John is free."
"That is so whether we think of it as a desire of S's or, more naturally, as a desire of, and."
"Strange coincidence, that every man whose skull has been opened had a brain!"
"I am using miracle to express a relation between different worlds."
"If there are many tosses, then the chance is close to one that the frequency of heads is close to the uniform single case chance of heads."
"of my 'Third Note', reprinted in appendix"
"The explicit dispositional idiom does not always appear, either as the word 'disposition' or as a suffix ble' or ile'; commonly the ispositional force is only implicit."
"'No but has no notion which is which."
"If the postulate of the theory is a tautology, for instance, the theoretical terms are not interpreted at all."
"And if you are surprised at our playing such a game"
"(It is nonsense to place the hypothesis 'p p' in front of a proposition, in order to ensure that its arguments shall have the right form, if only because with a nonproposition as argument the hypothesis becomes not false but nonsensical, and because arguments of the wrong kind make the proposition itself nonsensical, so that it preserves itself from wrong arguments just as well, or as badly, as the hypothesis without sense that was appended for that purpose.)"
"An apparently solid citizen of the city of Metropolis, well known in the community, and in particular to the chief of police, has a secret propensity for setting fires."
"Soon White was pursuing the matter with Goodman and me"
"A second thesis which I should like to propound here is this."
"But Henry is not like this."
"Sometimes it seems to the novice that indexical analysts of present are pretending that all times alike are present."
"A conflict with experience at the periphery occasions read ustments in the interior of the field."
"If we imagine a hypothetical (admittedly somewhat artificial) baptism of the substance, we must imagine it picked out as by some such 'definition' as, 'Gold is the substance instantiated by the items over there, or at any rate, by almost all of them'."
"Better translation imposes our logic upon them, and would beg the question prelogicality if there were a question to beg."
"Consider Methuselah."
", I see it quite clear."
"It might be said: The whole business is perfectly easy to explain."
"Whether to do so Ill"
"Legislative definition introduces a notation hitherto unused, or used only at variance with the practice proposed, or used also at variance, so that a convention is wanted to settle the ambi guity."
"are a partition and is possible, then, Y',. ."
"I propose, therefore, at once to consider this proposition, with a view to bringing out quite clearly what it means and involves, and what are the main reasons for saying that it is false."
"I ex plication the purpose is not merely to paraphrase the deliniendum into an outright synonym, but actually to improve upon the definiendum by refining or supplementing its meaning."
"The tradition survives, moreover, in writers who seem to share none of Wyman's moti vations."
"Does it make it true?"
"In the second passage, for instance, where he insists so emphatically that appearances do exist, are facts, and indubitably are, he is, I think, plainly talking of appearances, in the character which they exhibit or, as he there puts it, their nature, as it is he does, I think, mean that appearances, even in this character, are facts, exist, and are, though, in this character, they are not true of reality."
"In the case of thought, the response does not follow immediately upon the sensational stimulus, but that makes no difference as regards our present question."
"For one thing, the limits and qualifications are left unspecified."
"The letters a 'q' in a stand in place of statements."
"On the other hand it is not clear wherein an adoption of the conventions, antecedently to their formulation, consists; such behavior is dif ficult to distinguish from that in which conventioos are disregarded."
"It is assumed that the variables range over some nonemptydomain, and that the primitive ary predicates are interpreted by (totally defined) ary relations on."
"I wish at this point to introduce something which I need in the methodology of discussing the theory of names that I'm talking about."
"I wish to take this opportunity of thanking Professor Carnap for his friendly words about my unpublished work, at the place mentioned."
", that the contextual definition of 'or' presented at the begin ning of the second section was communicated with the help of logical and other expressions which cannot be expected to have been endowed with meaning at the stage where logical expressions are first being intro duced."
"What a man is believing at a given moment is wholly determinate if we know the contents of his mind at that moment; but Caesar's crossing of the Rubicon was an historical physical event, which is distinct from the present contents of every present mind."
"Kaufmann, Bemerkungen zum"
"he acts in such a way as to make it hold."
"Here the Principal Principle may act as a useful constraint."
"This verbal activity is, for the most part, rational."
"The collection of all physical objects is called 'matter'."
"Friedman shows that there are limits to what can be done in this direction."
"System, moreover, dictates the scientist's hypotheses themselves: those are most welcome which are seen to conduce most to simplicity in the overall theory."
"A disjunction is true if at least one disjunct is true regardless of whether the other disjunct is true, false, or undefin it is false if both disjuncts are false; undefined, otherwise."
"That is, not reply to him but admonish him."
"That's impossible, and that's what the owner is complaining about."
"It is characteristic of the sentences in the Tarski hierarchy that they are safe (intrinsically grounded) and that their level is intrinsic, given independently of the empirical facts."
"We speak of bearing a person in mind, not meaning that the person is in our minds, but that a thought of him is in our minds."
"by Donald Davidson and Gilbert Harman, Dordrecht:."
"Imaging is another way to do the same thing."
"It is natural to regard desire as in its essence an attitude towards something which is imagined, not actual; this something is called the or of the desire, and is said to be the of any action resulting from the desire."
"as true, with one and the same sentence in both blanks."
"But it holds also that no sensibles which we ever do directly apprehend, or should directly apprehend, if at a given time we were in other positions, are parts of those coins; and that, therefore, there is no reason to suppose that any parts of the coins have any of the secondary qualities colour, etc."
", a human being goes to the right at the sign and goes to the left at the sign but that he does not react to the sign as to."
"They a rc supposed to show how the primitive notations can accomplish all purposes, save brev ity and convenience, of the redundant language."
"Three paragraphs ago, I used such constructions to lure you into a context that favors back tracking.)"
"In what kind of case does it make sense to ask: When did I stop knowing it?"
"The doctrine is so widely held, and so interesting in itself, that even the briefest survey of philosophy must give some account of it."
"It would be correct to say: I believe truth; but I know."
"What I wish to suggest is that this condition is a universal condition for sound inductions."
"Accordingly, by combining the results of (a) two measurements of position, (b) measurement of position preceded by measurement of momentum, and (c) measurement of position followed by measurement of momentum, it would be possible to calculate, with the help of the data obtained, the precise position and momentum coordinates for the whole period of time between the two measurements."
"(Note that the second conjunct guarantees that our attention is confined to counterfactual situations where hears no denial.)"
"Semantic Analysis Ziff states that 'simple"
"These things are not mere thoughts of yours, but your thought stands in a relation to them of which you are more or less aware."
"It has been suggested to me that sometimes the respondent in a dialogue deliberately feigns to misunderstand an ambiguous phrase used by the first speaker, and that, given the supposed ambiguity of 'her husband' in the ambiguous language, the first dialogue can be interpreted as such a case."
"The premise of the argument we are considering for the classic position of Frege and Russell that whenever two codesignative names fail to be interchangeable in the expression of a speaker's beliefs, failure of interchangeability arises from a difference in the 'defining' descriptions the speaker associates with these names is, therefore, false."
"But in this, of course, I may be wrong."
"We can carry out the same kind of imaginary selection in connection with the other space co ordinates."
"What does follow from Perry's proposal is that, for any time, the, relation is the same as the I, relation."
"It is true that the etymology of the term sense data suggests that nothing should be called a sense datum, but what is given; so that to talk of a non given sense"
"Thus one may objectthat we would not adhere to 'No bachelor is married' if we found a married bachelor; and how are we to disallow his example without appealing to the very notion of analyticity we are trying to define?"
"There are two cases."
"It is seen in Frege's so called Caesar problem: the number five may be Jul ius Caesar."
"Strangely enough no one, to my knowledge, has raised the hierarchy problem regarding the theory of direct quotation."
"When this is recognized, the philosophical analysis of concepts or explication of terms comes into its own."
"(And see my reference to this remark in footnote above.)"
"But Hume has never said anything to show that unlikeness in this single respect is sufficient to invalidate the inference."
"Nor have the issues that I raised about indirect quotation (the second German course and so on) been raised about direct quotation."
"Vs Art Nco Nco Adj Adj Nco Rel"
"But to expect, or to conjecture, of a mathematical sequence that it will, as regards frequencies, approximate to an empirical one is nothing else than to frame a hypothesis a hypothesis about the frequencies of the empirical sequence."
"We would be forced to regard them as metalinguistic assertions of synonymy, or something of the sort."
"Certainly this fact is not beyond the reach of causal explanation."
"It can't be said of me at all (except perhaps as a joke)"
"There are differences that do matter."
"wishes to claim that the brain state and the pain are identical must argue that the pain A could not have existed without a quite specific type of configuration of molecules."
"This conceptual scheme may well be, however accidenral, a happy accident; ust as the theory of electrons would be none the worse for having first occurred to its originator in the course of some a bsurd dream."
"It does not exist in Edinburgh any more than in London, for it relates the two and is neutral as between them."
"To say that something different must happen in the two cases would be like saying that the propositions"
"As far as I know, no one has noted that his famous example is, in fact, wrong."
"Now I would like to regard this certainty, not as something akin to hastiness or superficiality, but as a form of life."
"A tiny miracle takes place."
"For some commonplace reason."
"bj ec tively describable by to stimulus meanings."
"It is impo rtant to note that this difficulty besets only the method of wholesale truth assignment, not that of definition."
"Well, something like this: if someone has a pain in his hand, then the hand does not say so (unless it writes it) and one does not comfort the hand, but the sufferer: one looks into his face."
"It was a tremendous achievement, on the part of our long term culture and our latter day scientists, to develop a theory that leads from obser vation to predicted ohservation as successfully as ours."
"For a while it will be convenient to talk as if there arc."
"Doubtless it is true in some sense that Heimson does not believe what Humedid."
"All these points will be amplified when we come to the analysis of knowledge, but it is necessary briefly to state them now in order to suggest the atmosphere in which our analysis of introspection is to be carried on."
"More generally, let, and be possible but pairwise incompatible."
"I hope Professor James would admit all these things to be silly, for if he and other Pragmatists would admit even as much as this"
"I just can't be wrong about that!"
"I know is here a logical insight."
"Also, they are the starting points and the check points of scientific theory."
"I describe what I am seeing differently."
"An operation can vanish (e.g. negation in '~~p': ~~p p)."
"If the minute difference made by eight bullets instead of seven is enough to make a different event, then so is the minute difference made by eight instead of nine."
"Per haps therefore is simply a untenable notion, notwithstanding our in tuitive predilectiom."
"For assuming that I possessed any apparatus with which I could make such measurements, then I should with this or some similar apparatus be able to produce aggregates of electrons which all (a) were limited as to their position, and (b) had the same momentum."
"He says: I believe it will not be very necessary to employ many words in explaining this distinction."
"In Harman's dictator case, it can be phrased as: 'I have heard a correct uncontradicted newspaper report. . .'"
"He formulated this discovery somewhat obscurely by his 'principle of temporal succession according to the law of causality' (which principle he believed that he could prove a priori by employing the reasoning here indicated)."
"do we need to use the more complicated and."
"What happens when a man suddenly understands?"
"That is just the reason."
"But, first of all, it may be useful to point out briefly in what relation"
"See, for example, Green's sentences and, pages."
"I owe the point that for Russell sense data were actually something physical, not strictly speaking to be identified with visual impressions, as I tend to do in the text."
"example, be able to attach the name of its colour to a white, black, red or blue object without the occurrence of any doubt."
"The aspects of things that are most important for us are hidden because of their simplicity and familiarity."
"The second proposition which, I think, may be put aside at once as certainly not giving the whole of what is meant, is the proposition which is, I think, the natural meaning of the phrases All relations modify or affect their terms or All relations make a difference to their terms."
"The meaning of the proposition to day is not Tuesday will be exactly the opposite."
"Many of these readers even seem to have overlooked the intuitive test for rigidity, as emphasized on pages."
"All the probability has been concentrated on the A worlds."
"Understanding words does not consist in knowing their dictionary definitions, or in being able to specify the objects to which they are appropriate."
"There is a great deal we know about the future, and a great deal we don't know about the past."
"And this, I admit, cannot be directly refuted."
"That presupposition is a metaphysical burden quite out of proportion to its intuitive appeal; what is more, its intuitive appeal can be explained away."
"He thinks that Frege was simply mistaken in regarding quotation of another speaker as a case of reference at all; as opposed to the usual use of quotation marks discussed in philosophy, and indeed introduced by Frege himself."
"ogous to the practice of calling homonyms distinct 'words', according to which uses of phonetically the same lds to nam: distinct objects count as distinct names."
"The same is usually true of space: if a regiment of men are marching along a road, the shape of the regiment will look different from different points of view, but the men will appear arranged in the same order from all points of view."
"It prescribes the rule of Vmaximising, according to which a rational choice is one that has the greatest expected value."
"The concepts of believing, expecting, hoping are less distantly related to one another than they are to the concept of thinking."
"perhaps he would have pronounced it differently, and we should say: he pronounces it so oddly because he takes it for a single word."
"In giving explanations I already have to use language full blown (not"
"I don't merely have the visual impression of a tree:"
"artian of I can find as he did that Hachclor' and 'Unmarried man' arc,'nonvmous uccasion sentences for the Fngl speaker, but still either terll!"
"i' that is like except perhaps at the nth term of the assignment coordinate,"
"Andy met with the again today."
"something Lewis wishes to avoid."
"But present concern is with statements which, under ordinary usage, involve only our logical primitives essentially; by (I)"
"By dividng the category of noun phrases, I may require some transformations to be doubled (or quadrupled, etc."
"We therefore look for some other interpretation of our actions, and regard our friends as very unjust when they refuse to be convinced by our repudiation of what we hold to be a calumny."
"When these associations are active, an image means an image, instead of meaning its prototype."
"Does the 'problem' of 'transworld identification' make any sense?"
"He explained as meaning necessarily if I) then, and offered no further reduction."
"as it is conceived in the superficial psychology of the present day."
"A smallish, connected, convex region may seem a more likely candidate than a widely scattered part of spacetime."
"Theses, and turn out to have a large class of counterinstances."
"In his discussion (which he also applies to other cases, such as my belief that I am not irrational or insane), he seems to be puzzled about the examples, and states, 'I do not think this is simply incoherent, neither is it pellucidly clear'."
"So the conclusion of this investigation would be that the analytical tools we are using go against the identity thesis and so go against the general thesis that mental states are just physical states."
"On the other hand, it is not implied by our rationality and utilitarianism, our knowledge thereof, and so on."
"Think, for example, of the words which you perhaps utter in this space of time."
"Suppose there are several that beat the rest, these are tied or incomparable, and they yield conflicting assignments of attitudes and meanings."
"The definition satisfies past usage of 'sphere' and 'includes' to the extent of verifying all truths and falsifying all falsehoods of geometry; all those statements of geometry which are true, and only those, become a breviations of truths of logic."
"The laws of itself, if such there be, do not enter into it.)"
"There also we found that the difference consists merely of the fact that a memory image is accompanied by a belief, in this case as to the past."
"As an example of a nonrigid designator, I can give an expression such as 'the inventor of bifocals'."
"Perhaps I see before me a schema shewing the method of projection"
"This scheme, with all its magnificent artificiality, James held on to until the end, simply dropping the term consciousness and the dualism between the thought and an external reality ("
"Now, analogously to Frege's 'indirect reference', we could naturally use the term 'direct reference' for the reference of a term to itself in direct quotation."
"Habit, memory and thought are all developments of mnemic causation."
"I have defined a reason for a belief as a true proposition, which would not be true unless the belief itself what is believed were also true; and I have used, as synonymous with this form of words, the expressions:"
"But the mother, red, and water a re for the infant all of a type: each is ust a history of sporadic encounter, a scat tered portion of what goes on."
"What is the form of the semantic rules whereby meanings of compounds are built from the meanings of their constituent parts?"
"Physical science, through the medium of inventions, is useful to innumerable people who are wholly ignorant of it; thus the study of physical science is to be recommended, not only, or primarily, because of the effect on the student, but rather because of the effect on mankind in general."
"What I mean by saying that a description might have referred to something different, I mean that in our language as we use it in describing a counterfactual situation, there might have been a different object satisfying the descriptive conditions we give for reference."
"I am by no means confident that the distinction between images and sensations is ultimately valid, and I should be glad to be convinced that images can be reduced to sensations of a peculiar kind."
"The lack of sharpness is that of the boundary between rde and empirical proposition."
"Back to the question whether I know that that's a says anything different from that is a. ."
"The contemporary idiom 'in some sense', for instance, is an S/S related to the delineation coordinate just as the modal operator 'possibly' is related to the world coordinate."
"That is, worlds and are tied in closeness to any third world."
"though it (metaph ally) possible that there should have been animals."
"(And it would also be imaginable for two people to feel pain in the same not just the corresponding place."
"It is based on tensions internal to theory."
"I can now make judgments about it itself the very sensible which I did see just now and am no longer seeing:"
"The essence of language lies, not in the use of this or that special means of communication, but in the employment of fixed associations (however these may have originated) in order that something now sensible a spoken word, a picture, a gesture, or what not may call up the idea of something else."
"must not he confused with"
"over my most fundamental judgments?"
"Thus it is true not only"
"Now, Russell says in the introduction to the second edition of Principia: The most definite improvement resulting from work in mathematical logic during the past fourteen years is the substitution, in Part"
"By this I mean a cluster sufficient to imply an bservable effect of an observable experimental condition."
"At the most that the circumstances are the ordinary ones."
"Meinong's act is the ghost of the subject, or what once was the full blooded soul."
"Once we have our competing systems, they vary in simplicity and in strength, as before."
"Can we constitute memory out of images together with suitable beliefs?"
"When we want to think of whiteness, they said, we form an image of some particular white thing, and reason concerning this particular, taking care not to deduce anything concerning it which we cannot see to be equally true of any other white thing."
"It is a nexus, a concatenation, of names."
"For we know that any singular term may be treated as a description ia( l/a)"
"My hunch is that this problem cuts across the issues I want to discuss, so I shall ignore it."
", that they and you are the same; but this sameness is no more a literal identity than the sameness between you today and you tomorrow."
"Further, Bas van Fraassen has taught us a general method for tolerating arbitrariness."
"Otherwise no training could mold the child's usage of the word 'red: since no future occasion would be more strongly favored by past applications of the word than any other."
"Further, it has been suggested that they amount to the same thing as Donnellan's attributive referential distinction."
"The confusion and barrenness of psychology is not to be explained by calling it a young science its state is not comparable with that of physics, for instance, in its beginnings."
"When it looks as if there were no room for such a form between other ones you have to look for it in another dimension."
"He similarly objects to Church's well known formalization of Frege's theory in 'A Formulation of the Logic of Sense and Denotation', where the infinity of primitives is very clear."
"We recognize a man, say, as a man, but not as an acquaintance."
"As it stands, it says nothing about what it is to explain general kinds of events."
"I call it an observation sentence."
"And most philosophers, I think, are willing to admit that we have some reason, in some sense or other, for such propositions as these."
"There are concepts with which. . . ."
"It is supposed that the if<U+FFFD>idiom, the not idiom, the every idiom, and so on, mean nothing to us initially, and that we adopt the conventions"
"Statistical estimates, or frequency statements, can never be derived simply from laws of a 'deterministic' kind, for the reason that in order to deduce any prediction from such laws, initial conditions are needed."
"Jones's favorite number is such that it is necessarily even' or, in rough Russellian transcription, as 'One and only one number is admired by Jones above all others, and any such number is necessarily even (has the property of necessary evenness).'"
"The axiom of uniqueness cautions us not to attribute a probability (with p) to a sequence which we suppose can be approximately described by means of the hypothesis that its probability equals."
"With a view to rendering comparable the degrees of composition of all basic statements, it might be suggested that we should choose a certain class of statements as the elementary or atomic ones, from which all other statements could then be obtained by conjunction and other logical operations."
"do I only believe that I am called."
"A mental occurrence of any kind sensation, image, belief, or emotion may be a cause of a series of actions, continuing, unless interrupted, until some more or less definite state of affairs is realized."
"If definite descriptions, ixf(x), are taken as primitive and assigned reference, then the conventional non rigid assignment assigns to such a description, with respect to each possible world, the unique object, if any, which would have f'd in that world."
"That is, it is any function (again in the most general set theoretic sense)"
"Knowledge of things by description on the contrary, always involves, as we shall find in the course of the present chapter, some knowledge of truths as its source and ground."
"Moreover, the meaning of a word is not absolutely definite: there is always a greater or less degree of vagueness."
"Unless certain particular characteristics which those arrow heads have were characteristics which belonged at least more frequently to articles of human manufacture than to any articles not made by men, it would surely be just as likely as not that these arrowheads were not made by men that they were, in fact not arrow heads."
"But it might be a paradigmatic case, one that I did not mention in Naming and Necessity, of fixing a reference by means of a description: it is a rule of the common language that each of us fixes the reference of 'I' by the description 'the subject'."
"Noncausal Decision Theory Noncausal decision theory needs no further apparatus."
"the past two centuries there have been five points where empiricism has taken a turn for the better."
"Wittgenstein, for example, says: 'The process of induction consists in assuming the simplest law that can be made to harmonize with our experience.'"
"I take it as evident that there is no inverse option here, no hope of sus taining mental monism hy assigning mental states to all states of physical objcts."
"Unl<U+FFFD> vers tv of Chicago Pres pp."
"Most philosophers, therefore, have not ventured to say that this is the judgment I am making; they say, for instance, that I am making a judgment about the feelings of the particular society to which I belong about, for instance, the feelings of an impartial spectator in that society."
"It is, in a sense, the converse of memory instead of having first sensations and then images accompanied by belief, we have first images accompanied by belief and then sensations."
"Might they not, for example, draw the conclusion If he ^ioans, we must give him more analgesic without suppressing a middle term?"
"An example would be a statement, deducible from the periodic system of chemical elements, which asserts the existence of elements of certain atomic numbers."
"The stuff of which the world of our experience is composed is, in my belief, neither mind nor matter, but something more primitive than either."
"Here the proper name has the direct use which it always wishes to have, as simply standing for a certain object, and not for a description of the object."
"What prompts a sense of meaning involvement here is thus at bottom the same as in the case of bachelor' and 'unmarried man'."
"What looks like an explanation here, or like a statement about a mental process, is in truth an exchange of one expression for another"
"Look for something denoted by a compound, say, a sentence, in the oblique context."
"Gottlob Frege, Uher Bedeutung, Zeztsclmft fur"
"We should still doubt whether what he had said was true."
"But 'the number of solar planets' is a logically indeterminate name of a number."
"It would be still better, however, if theory itself went indecisive about the hard cases."
"The conditional had no chance at of being false this is an immediate consequence of the reformulated Principal Principle."
"Let us then put aside these confusions and get back to set theory."
"And it properly means There is no such thing as a doubt in this case or"
"If the laws were held sacred, there would be no way to get rid of without changing all of the past; and nothing guarantees that the change could be kept negligible except in the recent past."
"I explained its stimulus meaning as the range of stimulations, any one of which would prompt the subjectto assent to the sentence."
"There may indeed be cases where it is rhetorically misleading to make a statement even when it is true."
"In the following chapter we shall consider briefly the reasons in my opinion fallacious which idealists advance in favour of their theory."
"Though they differ on the analysis of disposition names like immunity, they agree about what entities there are."
"This correct belief is then combined with the mistaken belief that the traditional problems of philosophy arise from the attempt to solve philosophical paradoxes whose structure is analogous to that of logical paradoxes, so that the distinction between meaningful and meaningless talk must be of central importance for philosophy also."
"If English really is the ambiguous language, we should expect to find other languages where the referential and attributive uses are expressed by two separate words, as in the unambiguous language."
"Here we need auxiliary premises; but since I accept the premises my opponent requires to make his case, we may proceed."
"If the histories permitted by a system formed a tree with finitely many branch points and finitely many alternatives at each point, and the system specified chances for each alternative at each branch point, then the fit between the system and a branch would be the product of these chances along that branch; and likewise, somehow, for the general, infinite case."
"See Gottlob Frege, On Seme and Reference, tramlated In."
"A third reason is that in using 'Nee' as a semantical predicate we flaunt a familiar re minder of referential opacity, in the form of quotation marks."
"And the first expression is no less accurate than the second; particularly where 'what has the colour' is not a physical object."
"If, for instance, A is father of three children, and, they mean to assert that he is modified, not merely by being a father, but by being the father of, also by being the father of, and also by being the father of."
"(The dogmatism into which we fall so easily in doing philosophy."
"(Or again This is false .)"
"Nevertheless, Nozick's condition and his condition still fail, so we do not have knowledge in Nozick's sense."
"But if I suppose that someone has a pain, then I am simply supposing that he has just the same as I have so often had."
"this could be true, unless the proposition 'This does in fact exist' is also true, and therefore the words '"
"The difference lies in the nature of the belief feeling."
"But what if the thing that any of us would take for a hammer were somewhere else a missile, for example, or a conductor's baton?"
"But I should have highlighted the problem much earlier and made the connection with the distinction between metaphysical and epistemological notions."
"I am quite certain that I ate my breakfast this morning, but if I were as indifferent to my breakfast as a philosopher should be, I should be doubtful."
"I say I am afraid someone else asks me: What was that?"
"It appears also, in less purified form, in Thomas Nagel,"
"And then it might be that he was contradicting my fundamental attitudes that were how it was, and if I should have to put up with it."
"Divergence from a world such as is easier than perfect convergence to it."
"But sensitiveness does not constitute knowledge, and knowledge of a fact which is not sensible is not sensitiveness to that fact, as we have seen in distinguishing the fact known from the stimulus."
"Yet you remain quite sure, despite all this evidence, that the chance of heads this time is."
"The thought to be found in is a desire for survival, of the most commonsensical and unphilosophical kind possible."
"The particular death he actually died depends counterfactually on your act, without which that very event would not have occurred."
"They will hardly be ready to grant this dignity to modern theoretical physics in which I and others see the most complete realization to date of what I call 'empirical science'."
"This is to put it in the form in which it is most easily testable: we break it up into many small steps, each easy to check by anybody who has learnt the mathematical or logical technique of transforming sentences."
"simple, or does it consist of two parts, each cm."
"The idea of introducing a recursively definable concept of freedom, freedom,. ."
"What if we report on what the newspaper said?"
"The semantic criterion of negation is that it turns any short sentence to which one will assent into a sentence from which one will dissent, and vice versa."
"We believe that there are some kinds of statements, which it is very unlikely the Times would make, unless they were true; and others which it is not at all unlikely that the Times might make, although they were not true."
"For it does not mean unusable."
"The latter can be used to talk in trochaic hexameter and is true on any occasion of its correctly accented utterance."
"Or you make a model of the Hampton Court maze, and put a rat in the middle, assaulted by the smell of food on the outside."
"Isn't two the correct answer?"
"Whether the earlier experience is the cause of the certainty depends on the system of hypotheses, of natural laws, in which we are considering the phenomenon of certainty."
"The image of pain is not a picture and this image is not replaceable in the language game by anything that we should call a picture."
"Prima facie, this proposition, just as much as the example '"
"re are not really beliefs."
"This is why I have chosen to ask the question: What reason do my observations give me for believing that any other person has any particular perceptions or beliefs?"
"Moreover, the set might be divided into questions and topics as well as assertions and so on."
"I do not even need to fabricate a case, I only have to consider what is in fact the case; namely, that I can direct a man who has learned only German, only by using the German language."
"I don't deny that some event with a richly detailed essence might be essentially a strolling, so that necessarily it occurs only in a region wherein someone strolls."
"Suppose the story tells of a bungled burglary in recent times, and suppose it ends just as the police reach the scene."
"Testability, however, is converse to the concept of logical probability, so that we can also say that an appraisal of corroboration takes into account the logical probability of the statement in question."
"Hence it would have to occur twice over in one world, which a particular event cannot do."
"In these cases, however, I recall proving though it really takes proving!"
"But then what is the difference between this chair's saying something to itself and another one's doing so, next to it?"
"I think it really comes from the idea of possible worlds as existing out there, but very far off, viewable only through a special telescope."
"Adams himself seems to favor this hypothesis about the semantics of indicative conditionals."
"He had said, Time has most evidently proved not to be real."
"we are having a perception."
"Then in (A) after at least one of the segments consisting of two elements (a particular pair), say after the The following formulation may be intuitively helpful: if the pairs are more frequent in certain characteristic distances than in others, then this fact may be easily used as the basis of a simple system which would somewhat improve the chances of a gambler."
"But when we come to the analysis and scientific understanding of the facts, the advantages on the side of self knowledge become far less clear."
"I mean, but without assuming that all men do share them."
"This definition is framed for the purposes of biology, and is in some respects unsuited to the needs of psychology."
"But so far we have only considered what may be called the demonstrative use of language, to point out some feature in the present environment."
"Reject that supposition by all means, but that does nothing to support Premise taken in the strong sense."
"Referential descriptions can easily refer to things that fail to satisfy the descriptions; nothing in my argument shows that names are not synonymous with such descriptions."
"Frisian and English, is aided by resemblance cognate word forms."
"schon die Seele nicht mehr'."
"But it is extremely unlikely that the Times would make a statement of this kind unless it were true; and, in that sense, the fact of the statement appearing in the Times would render it highly probable much more likely than not that the King was dead."
"Is this a report about his behaviour or his state of mind?"
"More important, this situation indicated that the evidence ordinarily adduced to show that names were synonymous with descriptions could instead be rationalized by this hypothetical model."
"In Evans, pp. . 'Understanding Demonstratives'."
"(More generally, an arbitrary world can play the role of our actual world."
"No proposition can make a statement about itself, because a propositional sign cannot be contained in itself (that is the whole of the 'theory of types')."
"Then indeed some arbitrary variation may infect the C(K)"
"But with this minor technical difference: he builds the."
"No: the fact that one speaks of the appropriate word does not shew the existence of a something that etc."
"but does not mean that the words I doubt."
"A criticism of Keynes's approach is contained in section."
"somebow sketched into the simplified model."
"Variables introduced in translation are to be chosen in some systematic way that prevents confusion of bound variables."
"They're not holes, they're two parts of a hole."
"But I see no reason to believe that the principle that experiences are unlocated enjoys any analytic, or other, necessity."
"We can quickly assure ourselves that it is, by examples of the following sort."
"She has heard no such assurances, because they are not needed."
"All such immediate data he calls 'ideas'."
"We can assume the quantifier ranges over classes."
"For these two speakers, the sense of 'Aristotle' will differ: in particular, speakers of the second kind, but not of the first kind, will regard 'Aristotle, if he existed, was born in Stagira' as analytic."
"To be precise, let be"
"If the table is not made of ice, it is necessarily not made of ice."
"And look on the feelings, etc., as you look on a way of regarding the language game, as interpretation."
"More than one term of the delineation coordinate might be involved for a single expression."
"It is the do main also of standard deviation, probable error, and"
"One such consequence is as follows."
"Other philosophers (for example, Mrs. Marcus in her reply, at least in the verbal discussion as I remember it"
"this impossibility. . .' (he is referring to the impossibility of exact prediction maintained by Heisenberg)."
"Someone who is inclined to hold these views can simply replace the terms 'light', 'heat', pain'."
"But one tends to include further territory still; cases such as 'No bachelor is married,' whose truth is supposed to depend on meanings of terms or on synonymy."
"The apparent consequences: is necessarily greater than I ecessa rily if there is life on the Evening Star"
"In such a life there is no peace, but a constant strife between the insistence of desire and the powerlessness of will."
"A general implication is written, '(x) fx)', where the 'universal operator', '(x)', can be read: 'It is true for all values of x';"
"Stimulus meaning has the same vir tue, since there are stimulation patterns that would prompt assent to 'Unicorn and not to 'Goblin."
"What happens when we make an effort say in writing a letter to find the right expression for our thoughts?"
"However, Kvart gives an elaborate counterfactual causal analysis, meant to free the notion of intended referent from any such objections."
"In Naming and Necessity, footnote I suggested tentatively that Donnellan's 'remarks about reference have little to do with semantics or truth conditions.'"
"It is not as clear in Dennett."
"Indeed no sooner have we distinguished the two worlds than it becomes necessary to consider their relations."
"that one really can know propositions about physical objects."
"are precisely those where we cannot strengthen the antecedent of a counterfactual conditional with by conjoining it with not."
"would he the same as for 'Rabbit.'"
"The feeling can also survive rejection of the ideas: one can protest still that the sentence and its translations all correspond to some identical even though unknown neural condition in the bilingual."
"de re belief requires a de dicto belief with an exportable term, is not tautological, but it is assumed by many writers on the subject."
"To know that you know something is to perform a very great epistemological feat, which is not comparable to just knowing it since you can't distinguish knowledge from mere justified belief in something false."
"It would not have been plausible to postulate that the counterpart relation was transitive."
"They are entirely free of the delicate problem of applying disquotation to utterances directly or indirectly based on the existence of linguistic confusion."
"I agree with Nozick that if the answer is indeterminate for some cases, his theory (if unrefuted elsewhere) could still be a first step, compatible with something more precise."
"But they do not go very far toward picking out those regions where the alleged event allegedly occurs."
"The rule that extreme improbabilities have to be neglected (a rule which becomes sufficiently explicit only in the light of the above) agrees with the demand for scientific objectivity."
"The thirty six possible states of the dice are literally thirty six 'possible worlds', as long as we (fictively) ignore everything about the world except the two dice and what they show (and ignore the fact that one or both dice might not have existed)."
"More generally, the delineation coordinate must be a sequence of boundaryspecifying numbers."
"Most of the logicians, semanticists, a analytical philosophers who discourse freely of attributes, propositions, or logical modalities betray failure to appreciate that they thereby imply a metaphysical position which they themselves would scarcely condone."
"(b) For every in there is some in such that causes."
"The situation is totally different if the requirement (+ of note to section is adopted: this is empirically significant, and renders the probability hypotheses falsifiable (as asserted in note to section."
"A problem which has arisen frequently in contemporary philosophy is: 'How are contingent identity statements possible?'"
", gives me reason to suppose that these generalisations are true and hence that other persons do have particular kinds of feelings."
"I can know yet not know (for I may not be tracking)"
"But first we must learn to understand what it is that opposes such an examination of details in philosophy."
"And some philosophers have seen this rreducibility the bankruptcy of epistemology."
"the time; they are not identical to persons we are counting."
"Any finite (or effectively specifiable infinite) selectio of statements (prefera bly true ones, perhaps) is as much a set of postulates as any other."
"Red' is somewhat less susceptible than 'Ra bbit' to the influences of intrusive information, there are other sentences that are vastly more so."
"Normally Europeans do know whether they have been in China or not."
"This does not mean that 'Russia and France were then at war' expresses the same thought at the present time as 'Russia and France are now at war' expressed at that time in the newspaper."
"But that is not an actual change: not a difference between two successive actualities."
"We explain the existential fact by identifying the truth making instance, by providing information about the causal history thereof, or both."
"The Ramsey sentence can obviously do nothing to help Theories, The foundations of Mathematics (London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, ed."
"It does not suffice to determine just what the change is."
"As we have seen, in fact it is hard to find any true belief that definitely cannot be absorbed by adding a suitable conjunct."
"On the basis of what he has heard of London, he is inclined to think that it is pretty."
"That to mv mind someone else has been wrong"
"If is any place sentence and. ."
"I ask someone Have you ever been in China?"
"Bur hope we arc now impressed with how"
"There is nothing in linguistic meaning that is not thus determined."
"What a picture represents it represents independently of its truth or falsity, by means of its pictorial form."
"There is a state of knowing what it's like, sure enough."
"It matters not the terminologies are intertranslatable."
"Kamp has shown that since and until suffice to define all possible tense operators, provided that the order of time is a complete linear order; see his Tense Logic and the Theory of Order."
"Physical phenomena are physically explicable, or they are utterly inexplicable insofar as they depend upon chance in a physically explicable way, or they are methodologically acceptable primitives."
"If the sign 'p' in 'p q' does not stand for a complex sign, then it cannot have sense by itself:"
"An expression represents or has a meaning in a grammar T)"
"A string of sounds or of marks is a sentence of if and only if it is a sentence of some language which is used in."
"I have just as strong a propensity to believe that they are really circular, in a simple and natural sense, as that they exist in such a sense: and I know of no better reason for believing either."
"Note that it would not work to use instead a function from common noun extensions (sets) to common noun extensions; for at certain indices 'Communist' and 'Maoist' have the same extension but 'alleged Communist' and 'alleged"
"(Think what happens when missionaries convert natives."
"The objection concerns what should be said about ordinary cases of probabilistic causation.)"
"Or, to state the same question in other terms: How is psychology to be distinguished from physics?"
"Other, more explicit, formulations are: 'Jones believes the proposition that Cicero was bald,' or even in the 'formal' mode, 'The sentence 'Cicero was bald' gives the content of a belief of Jones.'"
"So if personhood admits of degree, we have no discrepancy in formal character between the I relation and the relation."
"that there are no real hydras."
"identity holds necessarily if it holds at all."
"Once I am apprised of the true facts, speaker's reference and semantic reference will coincide thereafter and I will no longer use the description to refer to Go¨del."
"But are there not thoughts which are true today but"
"Even a man who strictly uses King Henry's arm as his one standard of length can say, counterfactually, that if certain things had happened to the King, the exact distance between the end of one of his fmgers and his nose would not have been exactly a yard."
"Between the notion of stimulus meaning and Carnap's remarks on empirical semantics' there"
"The words 'houses,' 'roses,' and 'sunsets' are true of sundry individual entities which are houses and roses and sunsets, and the word 'red' or 'red objct' is true of each of sundry individual entities which are red houses, red roses, red sunsets; bur there is not, in addition, any entity whatever, individual or other wise, which is named by the word 'redness,' nor, for that matter, by the word 'househood,' 'rosehood,' 'sunsethoo."
"Only in our subjective experiences of conviction, in our subjective faith, can we be 'absolutely certain'."
"It seems natural here to think that what is questioned is not whether this thing (man) existed."
"Or again consider the occasion sentences 'Indian nickel' and 'Buffalo nicke."
"There are two different questions involved when we ask whether matter exists, and it is important to keep them clear."
"fh other reason was that uch constructions would deepen our understanding of our dis course about the world, even apart from questions of evidence; it would make all cognitive discourse as clear as bservation terms and logic"
"So, it might be thought, to imagine a situation in which heat would not have been the motion of molecules, we need only imagine a situation in which we would have had the very same sensation and it would have been produced by something other than the motion of molecules."
"This sentence, one might say, achieves the same as the ordinary one, but in a more roundabout way."
"We might need evidence whether Nixon is a human being or an automaton."
"At any rate more refinements need to be added to make this even begin to be a set of necessary and sufficient conditions."
"These are, first, the overuse (misuse) of Gricean methodology and the related 'pragmatic wastebasket fallacy'"
"the speaker wants the hearer to know; and (d) neither the speaker nor the hearer has other (comparably strong) desires as to whether or not the speaker utters a."
"Mates does give mathematical examples in addition to Russell's that are quite natural, refuting Hilbert and Bernays."
"Consider the worlds where all our accumulated make believe learning about the doings of dragons is honest history: in the closest of these, Scrulch the dragon breathes fire."
"In fact, some actual people might have done the things in the story, if the circumstances had been different, in another possible world."
"every output signal from such a gate is caused partly by the absence of a second input signal.)"
"It is this relation that we must now investigate."
"It would be wrong to identify the language people would have, given that a certain situation obtained, with the language that we use to describe how circumstances would have been in that situation."
"Our conventions of dress might be sustained by a common aesthetic preference for somewhat uniform dress, or by the low cost of mass produced clothes, or by a fear on everyone's part that peculiar dress might be thought to manifest a peculiar character, or by a desire on everyone's part not to be too conspicuous, or most likely by a mixture of these and many other interests."
"I have called 'Bernoulli's problem', viz."
"Subsequent historians may, no doubt, sometimes be able to verify one or the other."
"The vagueness of similarity does infect causation, and no correct analysis can deny it."
"I can imagine that a papier ma^che´ barn, a different object from the one that is actually there, might have been erected on the field."
"And this by itself wrecks the comparison of 'organization' with colour and shape in visual impressions."
"It is obtained when the desire for knowledge is alone operative, by a study which does not wish in advance that its objects should have this or that character, but adapts the Self to the characters which it finds in its objects."
"This fact about, if true, is verifiable by direct computation, and thus is necessary if the results of arithmetical computations are necessary."
"It is noteworthy that the puzzle can still arise even if Pierre associates to 'Londres' and to 'London' exactly the same uniquely identifying properties."
"And how can I generalize the one case so irresponsibly?"
"According to this definition, a content is said to be believed when it causes us to move."
"Here, I think, we might say simply that all ideas which we can verify are true."
"We think that in thought it is arranged differently."
"Rarely do we knowingly assert such 'factual counterfactuals'; my own intuitions about their truth conditions are shaky."
"Von Mises also uses the expression 'almost certain', but according to him it is of course to be regarded as defined by 'having a frequency close to or equal to I'."
"If I say Of course I know that that's a towel I am making an utterance.'"
"That is the case, in particular, if continuant persons are maximal interrelated aggregates."
"But he has given no reason for asserting it."
"In so far as the scientist critically judges, alters, or rejects his own inspiration"
"This filling out and supplying of the real shape and so on consists of the most usual correlates of the sensational core in our perception."
"Likewise, it fortunately does not follow that the laws are different at other times and places where there live people with other standards."
"A proposition is the expression of its truthconditions."
"A reductio refutes the whole combination of assumptions that led to contradiction;"
"a hree le?ged tiger is not a contradictio in adjecto."
"There was no chance, at, of being false."
"Nozick's confidence that we have an 'intuitive understanding' of these counterfactuals strikes me as quite unfortunate, since I myself doubt this assertion and he invokes such counterfactuals often."
"More important than any particular example of something which is alleged to be necessary and not a priori or a priori and not necessary, is to see that the notions are different, that it's not trivial to argue on the basis ofsomething's being something which maybe we can only know a posteriori,"
"The point of ascribing truth conditions to indicative conditionals is not that we can thereby get rid entirely of special rules of assertability."
"It does not contain a Hebrew equivalent of the separate word 'I' at all: as in many languages, 'I' is used only for emphasis and is, in most cases, simply a suffix or prefix to the verb."
"One is given, let's say, a previous history of the world up to a certain time, and from that time it diverges considera'bly from the actual course."
"In evaluating the success of such attempts, it would be a mistake to think that nonstatistical hypotheses about the micro events and their laws of interaction could ever be sufficient to explain macro events."
"But as it is psychology that concerns us, we will merely note their special character and pass on, since the logical classification of words is not our main business."
"To say: in the end we can only adduce such grounds as we hold to be grounds, is to say nothing at all."
"To predict whether I will take my thousand, make a replica of me, put my replica in a replica of my predicament, and see whether my replica takes his thousand."
"Things a essences, for Aristotle, hut only linguistic forms have mean ings."
"Well, yes, but then can't an application come before my mind"
"Hume's passage is quoted below, in appendix vii, text to footnote ("
"Thus we shall be concerned only with mathematical sequences."
"If a dependency hypothesis is the conjunction of a probabilistic full pattern, then for some, implies A P=p."
"Doesn't testing come to an end?."
"Nor can the whole of the writing of Larr be a cause on which the writing of rry depends, though the first part of it well might be."
"I have used the rather awkward expression"
"How am I to explain it?"
"What is their Bedeutung?"
"But we cannot symbolize the fact that Plato does not precede Socrates by not putting the word precedes between Plato and Socrates."
"The point is to do so only when we must, and that is why I have concentrated on languages rather than grammars."
"Almost any kind of dependence, it would seem, is sufficient to illustrate Professor James' point."
"In each case, the Ordering Assumption holds."
"I come now to a characteristic which, though difficult to define, comes much nearer to what we require, namely subjectivity."
"By using the description which gives the sense ofit."
"I do not mean to say that any one man's observation can give a reason for this proposition: I do not assume either that it can or that it cannot."
"Augustine, we might say, does describe a system of communication; only not everything that we call language is this system."
"an (for any value of <U+2206>p)"
"He need merely query the sentences in parallel under random stimulations until he either ts a stimulation that prompts assent or dis sent to one sentence a not to the other, or else is satisfied at last that he is not going to."
"The observable and practical difference between them would be that the one who always believed falsely would quickly come to a bad end."
"Before we go farther it will be well to consider for a moment what it is that we have discovered so far."
"So we might for ur purposes simply identify the subj ect's stimulus, over a given brief moment, with the temporally ordered set of sensory receptors triggered in that moment."
"The question arises: Can't we be mistaken in thinking that we understand a question?"
"Thus neither of them can determine reality in any way."
"Though his proof is sound, it goes against nothing I want to say."
"oh tainahle theorems. '"
"When we try to look into ourselves we always seem to come upon some particular thought or feeling, and not upon the 'I' which has the thought or feeling."
"My argument parallels an argument which we will find uncontroversial."
"The asymmetry of fixity and of chance may be pictured by a tree."
"On the face of it th is was a grammatical aberration, independently of logical considerations. '"
"I have foremost in mind the chances of truth of propositions about localized matters of particular fact a certain toss of a coin, the fate of a certain tritium atom on a certain day"
"He himself mentions some similar comments by Price."
"Waiving the objection in (r), surely there is a substantial gap between premise and conclusion."
"We now select from all terms with the neighbourhood property of immediately succeeding a one (within the sequence a)."
"There are regularities whereby various aspects of responses to sounds or marks depend upon the sounds or marks to which one is responding."
"All you accomplish is to shield yourself from the bad news."
"There are differences of degree here."
"In the former passage Mr. Bradley declared most emphatically that Time is not real; he said: Time has most evidently proved not to be real."
"The point which concerns us is that a law of association, established by purely psychological observation, is a purely psychological law, and may serve as a sample of what is possible in the way of discovering such laws."
"Some are the same sort of thing that I am, others are less so."
"probabilities; to assume, that is to say, that for one and the same property there can be one and only one probability, within one and the same reference sequence."
"This solves our problem: it is now possible to deduce the law of great numbers within the framework of the frequency theory without using the axiom of convergence."
"Is it conceivable that we are wrong Wouldn't a mistake topple all judgment with it More"
"All the same one can say:"
"But it is equally clear that the methodological problem of induction is not affected by this solution."
"In his earlier discussions in the Principles of Mathematics, Russell has a complicated and obscure analysis of all these phrases as of the same kind, trying to give complex things to which they refer."
"that, as likely as not nothing exists at all."
"A child who has mastered the use of the word is not 'sure that in his language this colour is called .'."
"being given a criterion of what is to be called 'long', we cannot know when, or whether, we have reached an approximation to the probability."
"a while we exchange positions the objcts age."
"For me, at any rate, both philosophy and science would lose all their attraction if they were to give up that pursuit."
"This part is true: the probability of a nonvacuous Stalnaker conditional is the probability of the consequent, after minimal revision of the original probability function to make the antecedent certain."
"Consider the case where has a canonical name for every element of."
"You do not have to wait for it as for an astronomical event and then perhaps make your observation in a hurry."
"Scholarslllp sets in;. ."
"is predominantly due to the probability of the consequent."
"They can be explained, of course."
"but he was prepared to withdraw and alter it."
"may have precisely one realization, or no realization, or more than one realization."
"un intuiti ve, ad hoc devices"
"In all this we are clearly not in the region of psychology, as commonly understood; yet we are also hardly in the region of physics."
"Every regular appearance is an actual member of the system which is the star, and its causation is entirely internal to that system."
"for students surely do know that such exams will be given."
"If so, then what becomes of my asymmetries?"
"Re Beliefs about Natural Numbers.'"
"Therefore Pegasus, initially confused with a meaning, ends up as an idea in the mind."
"a statement is more easy to falsify than a statement, because it is of a higher level of universality or precision, then the class of the basic statements permitted by is a proper subclass of the class of the basic statements permitted by."
"although here, perhaps, in most cases, the probability that we shall not is not so great."
"All we have are pur ported illustrations, and claims that the truths of elementary logic, with or without the rest of mathematics, should be counted in."
"But the belief that that book is there at that particular time occurs to no one else, and never again to me."
"We will take the second of these points first."
"While it dramatizes the problem to think of the million already there, or else already not there, in the opaque box in front of me as I deliberate, it is agreed all around that"
"The argument is perfectly general, since all my perceptions, feelings and thoughts do have to one another those relations in virtue of which I call them mine; and which, when I talk of a perception, feeling or thought as being another persons"
"This completes my discussion of preemption."
"And it is very difficult to be sure that this is not true; since it is very difficult to prophesy as to what may happen in the far future."
"I have just put my hand down on my desk."
"This snbj ective selectivity is not limited to the perceptual level."
"Both answers seem obviously affirmative."
"Else the plots would not make sense."
"Meaning lected portions might; for the difference between center and periphery, which is such an important determinant of visual attention, is then auto matically allowed for."
"The bird does what it does, at each stage, because it has an impulse to that particular action, not because it perceives that the whole cycle of actions will contribute to the preservation of the species."
"the logic of classes is at han."
"Doesn't this consideration show that the fourth condition is almost without force, a broken reed?"
"He tells us that it was his object to discover the extent and force of human understanding, to give us an exact analysis of its powers and capacity."
"It is clear that we should not say had the right to say the words"
"David Kaplan, however, has expressed views does not exist'."
"Another that is true is: Ralph believes that the man seen at the beach is not a spy, which of course must not be confused with."
"The first thing to jump to my eye in this picture is: there are two hexagons."
"And this statement that every theft which has been committed was an act which the thief, if he had so willed, could have avoided, though it may be doubted if it is absolutely universally true, is not a statement which is clearly absurd, like the statement that every covetous desire could have been avoided by the will of the person who felt it."
"Example The Loose Wire."
"As I mentioned in chapter the later Wittgenstein, and those following him, might object to any idea that one understands 'I' in the mouth of someone else by analogy to one's own case, but I am scouting this issue here"
"It is obvious therefore that the phrases 'intrinsically different' and 'having different intrinsic properties' are ambiguous."
"Which sensation does one mean by 'this one?"
"How can a proposition depend on who expresses it?"
"It is a proposition about the causal history of the explanandum event."
"Then two stages that are strongly related also are strongly I related, whereas stages that are weakly related are also weakly I related."
"Then no set is in any world in the sense of being a part of it."
"I have not stipulated that only sentential meanings may be represented; that stipulation could be added if there is reason for it."
"It is dual to that discussion."
"We then discover that the external phenomenon which produces this sensation, which we sense, by means of our sense of touch, is in fact that of molecular agitation in the thing that we touch, a very high degree of molecular agitation."
"This is not the case, and a vague image may well have a meaning which is general."
"See recent work on impossible world semantics for doxastic logic and for relevant implication; especially Routley, Ultra Modal Propositional Functors ."
"We may adopt names for each of our letters and other characters, and Tarski's to express con catenation."
"Predicating this of the Matterhorn carries us hack in effect to thc original sentence."
"I suggest that we may say either; even historical clairvoyance would reveal no distinction, though it reveal all stages in the acquisition of, since meaning can evolve pari passu."
"I Obviously, aside from such amplification in the preface, there are passages in the monograph other than just footnote that I might modify."
"And in such a case we certainly might know that the existence of A pointed to the existence of, without knowing that when A existed generally existed also."
",e CirC Ul ta nces where he is disposed, if queried, to assent to 'P' and a. to."
"The problem resembles that of truth in inconsistent fiction, discussed in Postscript to (in this volume), and the alternative proposed solutions to the problems are parallel."
"On the other hand, facts about universals do not have this privacy."
"If Donnellan had possessed a clear intuition that 'Her husband is kind to her,' uttered in reference to the kind lover of a woman married to a cruel husband, expressed the literal truth, then he would have adduced a phenomenon that conforms to the ambiguous language but is incompatible with any Russell language."
"had various circumstances been different."
"For it will then also become clear what can lead us (and did lead me) to think that if anyone utters a sentence and means or understands it he is operating a calculus according to definite rules."
"We may with James accept visceral and organic sensations and the memories and associations of them as contributory to primitive emotion, but we must regard them as re enforcing rather than as initiating the psychosis."
"And of course we find no answer, or one that is inadequate."
"That information was available in no other way."
"So, clearly, examples of metaphysical but not epistemic necessity that I have advocated, such as 'water is O', are not contemplated."
"Situations arise that curiously challenge the individuality of a particle, not only over time, but even at a single time."
"That is to say, a belief will be true, so long as it is useful, even if it is not useful in the long run!"
"First I must explain what I mean by an observation sentence."
"Someone could be supercredulous of a given type but not believe that he is not supercredulous (of that type)."
"Quine once defended something very close to my present account of desire de se."
"We may contrast the Russell languages with what may be called the Dlanguages."
"So the idea that there was such a pagan deity was just a mistake."
": Thought can be of what is not the case."
"Let us suppose I regularly identify it wrong, it does not matter in the least."
"see it as a projectof positing a realm of entities intimately related to the stimulation of the sensory surfaces, and then, with the help periu p' an aux iliary realm of entities in set theory, proceeding hy contextual definltJon to construct a language adequate to natural science."
"We will be prepared to distinguish between the similarity relations that guide our offhand explicit judgments and those that govern our counterfactuals in various contexts."
"Suppose we first perceive the sun shining, which is a complex fact, and thence proceed to make the judgement '"
"But this real shape, which is what concerns science, must be in a real space, not the same as anybody's apparent space."
"simply a title peculiar to England?"
"The holocaust takes place."
"Peano was of course not a dishonest man."
"Someone who did not understand our language, a foreigner, who had fairly often heard someone giving the order: Bring me a slab!"
"The speaker's implicatures from our own."
"Translated by Max Black, in Beaney, pp. '"
"But no nominalist would agree."
"But if I am right, that seems to be the choice."
"(And this language like any other is founded on convention."
"I want to reply you don't"
"Nevertheless, in the situation in question, 's belief that Jones is an actress (the conjunction) would satisfy Nozick's third condition, because of our remarks about the logical properties of the situation, as stated above."
"After the likeness had struck you, how long were you aware of it?"
"Thus all knowledge which asserts existence is empirical, and the only a priori knowledge concerning existence is hypothetical, giving connexions among things that exist or may exist, but not giving actual existence."
"Only the disquotational principle is necessary for our inference; no translation is required."
"(that is, that it is not the case that he believes that London is pretty)."
"That is not acceptable."
"Before embarking upon the detailed analysis of belief, we shall do well to note certain requisites which any theory must fulfil."
"It will not have its separahle bundle of observahle or testa ble consequences."
"There must not be anything hypothetical in our considerations."
"It seems to imply, given certain acceptable further premises, that sometimes we are able to act in such a way that the laws of nature are broken."
"The actual sense data are neither true nor false."
"Thereby I add to my earlier discussion, but do not at all subtract from it."
"Suppose is a scientific law that believes by a method satisfying neither the third nor the fourth condition."
"A accordance with my proposal made above, epistemology, or the logic of scientific discovery, should be identified with the theory of scientific method."
"The truth of antecedent and consequent is not alone sufficient for the truth of a subjunctive; says more than and."
"But since counterfactuals are not transitive, that does not settle whether there is raising over the entire chain."
"I have mdeed mveighed agamst making and Imputmg platom<U+FFFD>tIc assumprrons gratuitously, but equally for obscunng them."
"I have not been forced to go nearly as far as Perry in claiming that various pressures have led Frege to abandon some of his own fundamental beliefs."
"In spite of these qualifications, the broad distinction between instinct and habit is undeniable."
"When we say that something is contingently true, we mean that, though it is in fact the case, it could have been the case that things would have been otherwise."
"the .l ity be tween concept and doctrine, hetween"
"It is obvious that it is only what goes on in our own minds that can be thus known immediately."
"Analyticity, essence, and modality arc not my meat."
"But the content of my thought, the particular event that is happening in my mind, is different when I think of Smith and when I think of Brown."
"But this means nothing else than that the content of the theory must go as little as possible beyond what is empirically established."
"any rclation such that Hunt (a, R), then the whole of a basehall, except for a thin peripheral layer, constitutes an a memher oft ct.'"
"He may merely have heard that she is married to a cruel man."
"Speaker's Reference and Semantic Reference extent our linguistic intuitions are really intuitions of a unitary concept, rather than of a word that expresses two distinct and unrelated senses."
"An segment of has the property '<U+2206>p' if and only if the relative frequency of its ones deviates by less than from the value"
"I note that the same problem arises in consequence of my treatment of counterfactuals with true antecedents."
"I was unconvinced by his earlier proposal."
"The corresponding facts about my larynx and nervous system are compossible with my speaking Finnish."
"Commonly, a hearer also has some or other reason to believe that the speaker's beliefs are correct (by and large, and perhaps with exceptions for certain topics); so it is reasonable for him to infer that the sentence he has heard is probably true in."
"Some of these cross world individuals are unified by counterpart relations."
"Nevertheless, these considerations may appear to indicate that descriptions, or associated properties, are highly relevant somehow to an ultimate solution, since at this stage it appears that the entire puzzle arises from the fact that Pierre originally associated different identifying properties with 'London' and 'Londres.'"
"The Philosophy of Rudolf Carnap, (La Salle,.; Open Court,."
"What the words meant is clear: the police were around the corner."
"The story is brie<U+FB02>y and excellently told by Max Born in Albert Einstein, Philosopher Scientist, edited by."
"However, matters get out of hand when the modulus is exces sive."
"And a good many other philosophers seem inclined to take the same view about relations which Mr. Bradley is here trying to express."
"See Quine first paragraph)."
"I do not know a proper explanation of the contexts in which these locutions are allowed."
"So, we do not begin with worlds (which are supposed somehow to be real, and whose qualities, but not whose objects, are perceptible to us), and then ask about criteria of transworld identification; on the contrary, we begin with the objects, which we have, and can identify, in the actual world."
"(Kaplan does not properly follow Russell's terminology here, and says that according to Russell definite descriptions do not 'denote'."
"This additional demand, however, cannot have any extensional significance either; moreover, it has no logical or formal but only an intensional significance: it is a demand for the exclusion of all intensionally defined (i.e. mathematical) sequences without frequency limits."
"We can define the meaning in, denotation in, etc., of a phrase: a string of sounds or of marks representing a subsentential constituent in via the representing operation of."
"They do not perceive that Esse is"
"I guess one should not rely on physicists for geographical information.)"
"It's a blind alley to count the violated laws."
"in particular, not enough information about its causal history."
"Take one of Hempel's definitions of deductive nomological explanation:. ."
"I am grateful to Peter van Inwagen, who called my attention to the connection between indexical actuality and certain anthropic answers."
"Moreover, it is false that such a physical state and its epiphenomenal correlate are causally equivalent."
"Some of our ordinary practice of translation may violate this principle; this happens when the translator's aim is not to preserve the content of the sentence, but to serve in some other sense the same purposes in the home language as the original utterance served in the foreign language."
"We begin with undoubted objective fact: the dependence of the subject's behavioral output on his input of sensory stimulation (both as it actually is and as it might have been) together with all the physical laws and."
"Suppose he was surprised that I knew with such certainty, although I hadn't looked at my toes"
"anatomical facts that explain it."
"Surely, then, Nozick would find the trouble in the third condition even if had been irrational, would have believed, using this method, that was rational."
"This demand would indeed exclude tautological theories, but it would not exclude synthetic metaphysical statements."
"It is the proposition"
"only a community wide After this paper was completed, I saw Alvin Plantinga's paper 'The Boethian Compromise,' The American Philosophical Quarterly"
"In general, therefore, comparison of whole stimul meanings can be a better basis for translations than comparison merely of affirmative stim ulus meanings."
"We might say instead that the theoretical terms of multiply realized theories do not name anything."
"Consider the following disjunction (forget about the incomplete descriptions here, another problem, perhaps, but they could be filled out)"
"But Keynes overlooks the fact that theories whose corroborating instances belong to widely different fields of application will usually have a correspondingly high degree of universality."
"Perhaps there are certain attributes that can only be essential attributes of things, never accidents."
"We have A, read as The A is true for a thing iff"
"Th fact I relevant becau' of the manner wh the fllie ot iuh."
"We replace the space of worlds by the space of centered worlds, or by the space of all inhabitants of worlds."
"Hence, if Frege and Russell are right, we cannot use this example in the usual straightforward way to conclude that proper names are not substitutable in belief contexts even though the example, and the ensuing negative verdict on substitutivity, has often been thought to support Frege and Russell!"
"Let us usc J', etc., for that purpose."
"The most important objection to this doctrine is that possible worlds and their unactualized inhabitants are occult; I have argued elsewhe that they are no more occult than the infinite sets we have learned to live with, and just as useful in systematic philosophy."
"Why should it be so annoyingly prolix to say 'that is a toy duck,' or 'that is a plastic duck'?"
"A A A I. First Steps Radical Translation"
"But how and through what?"
"But once we know that this is a thing composed of molecules that this is the very nature of the substance of which it is made we can't then, at least if the way I see"
"Post (American Journal of Mathematics., and, at the same time, the frequency theory of von Mises."
"That suggests that there is only one."
"In what scenes will they be used; and what for?."
"The change when the pupil began to read was a change in his behaviour, and it makes no sense here to speak of 'a first word in his new state'."
"Perhaps these distinctions are indeed built into the language, as we have it, but are not important from a genuine, truly philosophical point of view."
"They will not meet the conditions for seeing that follow, wherefore I claim only sufficiency and not necessity for those conditions."
", that would eventuate if some particular coin toss were somehow repeated forever."
"Let us say that an individual exists from the standpoint of a world iff"
"But though sometimes I have heard Lewis say that here he simply is giving a stipulative definition and remember, in addition, that Lewis has his own very special sense of the term 'possible worlds' presumably, in one sense, it is supposed to represent a thesis or discovery having something to do with traditional uses of the term 'proposition'."
"Did you, as you were saying the word, mean this bank?"
"Radical reductionism, conceived now with statements as units, set it self the task of specifying a sense datum language and showing how to translate the rest of significant discourse, statement by statement, nto it."
"William James's view was first set forth in an essay called Does 'consciousness' exist?"
"Also there is the problem of allowable latitude of translation or paraphrase, when the clause in believes that f!'"
"It is like the following:"
"Farther along in a more narrowly scientific spirit, speculated on how we round our our recognition of objcts as objects, bit by bit, with our acquisition of language and science."
"Consider this further case: I am explaining chess to someone; and I begin by pointing to a chessman and saying: This is the king; it can move like this,."
"If has only one value, then N(<U+03BE>)"
"So, one way or another, a special case it must be."
"The present text is lightly.edited from the lI batjm transcript; an occasional passage has been added to expand the thought, an occasional sentence has been rewritten, but no attempt has been made to change the informal style of the original."
"Objective reasons too may serve as 'subjective causes of judging', in so far as we may re<U+FB02>ect upon these reasons, and become convinced of their cogency."
"Such filtering arguments, however, are never correct."
"If we want to speak of such existents which hardly happens except in philosophy we have to do it by means of some elaborate phrase, such as the visual sensation which occupied the centre of my field of vision at noon on January."
"Stated in logical terms, this amounts to saying that, when we know a many one relation of A to, is dependent upon A in respect of this relation."
"Among the latter are to be counted the so called truths of logic and mathematics, regardless of what further we may have to say of their status in the course of a subsequent sophisticated philosophy."
"See also appendix, note and text."
"No such factor is present in the comparison case."
"To put the matter thus invites, however, the charge of meaninglessness: one may protest that a distinction of meaning nreflected in the totality of dispositions to verbal behavior is a distinction without a difference."
"It made a difference of twenty years."
"That is, I who am looking at it say, not It may also be something that has fallen over"
"The power of acquiring experience, which characterizes men and animals, is an example of the general law that, in mnemic causation, the causal unit is not one event at one time, but two or more events at two or more times.and A burnt child fears the fire, that is to say, the neighbourhood of fire has a different effect upon a child which has had the sensations of burning than upon one which has not."
"Falsifiability separates two kinds of perfectly meaningful statements: the falsifiable and the non falsifiable."
"A cause, it was held, must be such that under no conceivable circumstances could it fail to be followed by its effect."
"Not throughout its history; but the postdetermination across the time of convergence with is deficient."
"The requirement that the falsifying"
"Obviously A could be wrong about some things about."
"the attempt to do so must lead to obvious nonsense."
"The causal role identity theorist holds that is a brain state, that the fact that is a pain is to be analyzed (roughly) as the fact that is produced by certain stimuli and produces certain behavior."
"Perhaps by means of gestures, or by pricking him with a pin and saying: See, that's what pain is!"
"but scientific statements can only attain continuous degrees of probability whose unattainable upper and lower limits are truth and falsity'."
"namely, the tuple satisfies the realization formula of in the model determined jointly by the state of affairs in the possible world and by the fixed interpretation of the vocabulary."
"It is the phenomenon which is characteristic of this language game that in this situation we use this expression: we say we pronounced the word with this meaning and take this expression over from that other language game."
"At each step in the chain, we have a cause raising the probability of its immediate effect."
"whereas belief de re is only partly psychological:"
"(Quine further says that he gathers the example is actually geographically incorrect."
"A favorite example is that none of us knows that he is not <U+FB02>oating in a tank on Alpha Centauri (stimulated to have just the experiences that he actually has)."
"How do you know that you have raised your arm?"
"We could reformulate everything in the language of standard measure theory, or we could transfer our simpler formulations to the infinite case by invoking nonstandard summations of infinitesimal credences."
"The illtentional, for all its failure of indi viduation, was the given."
"The roots in childhood of our driver's reckless disposition, for example, are part of the causal chains via his drunkenness, and also are part of other chains via his bald tire."
"Not only must we say how this relation evolves when the master says something about absolute permissibility, but also we must say how it evolves when he says something as he might about comparative near permissibility."
"in the original German)."
"We had better accept both"
"The idea of a middle frequency will be found very suitable for our purpose."
"If Frege and Russell are right, I cannot deduce, using the disquotational principle: To state the argument precisely, we need in addition a form of the Tarskian disquotation principle for truth:"
"The interdefinitions run thus: sentences are synonymous if and only if their biconditional formed by oining them with 'if and only if' is analytic, and a sentence is analytic if and only if synonymous with self conditionals 'If then."
"Perhaps Kaplan thinks that a direct reference account of 'I' and 'me' gives an adequate treatment of examples such as Altham's."
"I if time is money then if time is not money then time is money then if if if time is not money then time is money then time is money then if time is money then time is money."
"For ontological commitment it is the variable that counts."
"I am only maintaining that my judgment is also, in another sense, a judgment about this sense datum which mediates my perception of the inkstand."
"They should still be defined using the original version of even after it has been superseded by revised versions."
"Vivid designators, analogues of the rigid designators in modal logic, are the terms that can be freely used to instantiate quantifications in belief contexts, and that are subject to the substitutivity of identity and, now, to exportation."
"Ontological questions then end up on a par with questions of natural science."
"For example, we could have a quantifier meaning 'for uncountably many,' a 'most' quantifier, a language with infinite conjunctions, etc."
"Suppose that in the end you had an abstract memory image of the different appearances presented by the negro on different occasions, but no memory image of any one of the single appearances."
"At any rate it is important to imagine a language in which ow concept 'knowledge' does not exist."
"This affords a fresh illustration of the necessity of distinguishing between sense data and physical objects."
"In fact, we can see pretty directly that any quantified modal logic is bound to show such favoritism among the traits of an objct; for surely it will be held, for each thing, on the one hand that necessarily x)"
"What is odd is that in such a case I always feel like saying (although it is wrong)"
"These are meant to apply, as we have seen, mainly to those measurements which are used for the deduction of predictions, and not for testing them."
"All deductions are made a priori."
"As for the Centering Assumption, we must impose it on the intended models as a further condition:"
"For it is not as though the proposition"
"Might I really have been four years old now (in )?"
"I cannot tell why they think so."
"His most distinctive contribution was the invention of what he called the 'critical' philosophy, which, assuming as a datum that there is knowledge of various kinds, inquired how such knowledge comes to be possible, and deduced, from the answer to this inquiry, many metaphysical results as to the nature of the world."
"Apparently, therefore, Professor James means to assert not merely that all true ideas are useful, but also that all useful ideas are true."
"And whatever we may think of deductive closure in general, surely there is something counterintuitive, almost silly, about the idea that although the subject does not know some proposition, he does know that he correctly believes it!"
"Since is incontestably true, should always be okay."
"Of course, given the name of a famous historical figure, individuals may give different, and equally correct, answers to the"
"Sentence is an example from Soames."
"Especially, the final parts of the histories may be much the same from one case to the next, however much the earlier parts may differ."
"So far as I can tell, Kyburg is content to join me in so doing.)"
"This becomes very clear if one considers, for example, the proposition '(x):fx.<U+2283>.x a'."
"They are not even regularities and cannot be formulated as imperatives."
"The importance of this concept lies in the connexion between the concepts of 'seeing an aspect' and 'experiencing the meaning of a word'."
"(Compare Hertz's Mechanics on dynamical models.)"
"If spatia temporal is lacking when we af firm"
"The Carnap sentence, on the other hand, does nothing to help systematize sentences; but it does contain the terms, and it does seem to do as much toward interpreting them as the postulate itself does."
"Since some probability functions that represent possible systems of belief are not trivial, our indicative conditional is not a probability conditional for the class of all such probability functions."
"For this is what disputes between Idealists, Solipsists and Realists look like."
"Thus the statement which seemed like a truism becomes, when re stated, the following: 'We can never truly judge that something with which we are not acquainted exists.'"
"We should not suppose that the only possible way to give some information about how an event was caused is to name one or more of its causes."
"The maxim translation underlying a this is that assertions start ingly false on the face"
"If we take all those throws having the property five which have appeared up to a certain element of the sequence, and divide their number by the total number of throws up to that element (i.e. its ordinal number in the sequence)"
"Consider whether the event of a certain description would or would not have occurred under some counterfactual supposition."
"Even if the system of equations does not suffice for a unique solution, it does not allow every conceivable combination of values to be substituted for the 'unknowns' (variables)."
"(Even a 'phenomenal' language permitting statements like 'now here red' would be impregnated with theories about time, space, and colour.)"
"So I don't think that this will go for Russell, and the doctrine of For a parallel discussion, see Soames Ch."
"If an event occurs in a region, it does not occur in any proper part of that region."
"Not all science fiction writers are clear headed, to be sure, and inconsistent time travel stories have often been written."
"I first component is a subdas of the a ffirmative stimulus meaning of the second component and the negative stimulus meanings are conversely related."
"rting selected instances of synonymy come then as reports upon usage."
"He wishes to assert, it would seem That we can verify all those of our ideas, which are true."
"These were universal statements and existential statements: they are negations of one another, and they differ in their logical form."
"When one says Moses does not exist this may mean various things."
"These are to be our definition sentences for the theory."
"And I understand the proposition without having had its sense explained to me."
"bservation sentences have their antecedents in birdcalls and in the sig nal cries of the apes."
"Tbis conclusion, conversely, once it is embraced, seals the fate of a ny general notion of propositional meaning or, fo that matter, state of affairs."
"These are the contingent marks by which we identify a certain planet and give it a name."
"This is the basis both of habit and of association."
"If you say he sees a private picture before him, which he is describing, you have still made an assumption about what he has before him."
"Is this the same gavagai as that?,' 'Do we have here one gavagai or two."
"The cause might lower the probability of the effect, or might leave it unchanged."
"Here is one possibility: words are connected with the primitive, the natural, expressions of the sensation and used in their place."
"And some I, for one who discuss Prisoners' Dilemma think it is rational to rat no matter how much alike the two partners may be, and no matter how certain they may be that they will decide alike."
"Why is it intangible' Isn't it."
"But we act as we do because we believe and desire as we do."
"Once again, one should remember that 'suspect' is a predicate, interacting with quantifiers, cardinality, and the like, and one should bear in mind how it would normally be projected."
"It might be said that even if the asymmetry is admitted, it is still impossible, for various reasons, that any theoretical system should ever be conclusively falsified."
"familiar lines, we could still have availed ou rselves of the following arti ficial and trivial seeming device: we could have appealed to the ex hy pothesi unanalyzable, irreducible attribute of being Pegasus, adopting, for its expression, the verb 'is Pegasus,' or pegasizes."
"This might be the case even though the members of the society spoke English, just as we do."
"So good is the parallel between plan and presupposition that we might well ask if our plan simply is part of what we presuppose."
"See for example Frege,."
"Moore does not what he asserts he knows, but it stands fast for him, as also for me;"
"intension and extension would be correlative concepts."
"one needs another argument: that the student still would know on day that the exam will be given and will be a surprise (not known in advance)."
"Counterpart theory and quantified modal logic seem to have the same subject matter; seem to provide two rival ways of formalizing our modal discourse."
"In a truth functional context, scope can still make a difference."
"At the age of he has hardly any memories that go back before his seventieth year; and so on."
"Russell would never have been tempted to postulate unrestricted exportation for definite descriptions, since it amounts to saying that a small scope formulation always implies the corresponding large scope formulation, which he clearly does not believe."
"However, it has a natural extension."
"My proposals regarding the nature of meanings will not coniform to the expectations of those linguists who conceive of semantic interpretation as the assignment to sentences and their constituents of compounds of 'semantic markers' or the like."
"Thanks to the fact that Ls contains its own truth predicate, we need not express this fact by a schema, or by a statement of a meta language."
"Then there will be a quote sense, and then won't there also be a whole hierarchy of a quote quote reference, a quote quote sense, and so on?"
"The word is always concrete and sensible, however abstract its meaning may be, and thus by the help of words we are able to dwell on abstractions in a way which would otherwise be impossible."
"In such cases we know that the proposition leaves something undetermined."
"So it's unsurprising if what we have the means to signal is the former rather than the latter."
"It leaves us with no distinction between admissihle and inadmissible cases of the ex portation that leads from to I except that those cases remain in,."
"I believe as I shall try to prove in a later lecture that desire, like force in mechanics, is of the nature of a convenient fiction for describing shortly certain laws of behaviour."
"he is' is not always satisfied, even when a subject has a de re belief about her/him."
"There are good reasons for being iscontent with an analysis that leaves us with propositions, attributes, and the rest of the intensions."
"Later, Salmon wrote he doubted they were trying to avoid hydras."
"The answer depends on the resolution of vague standards of fragility."
"For example, a sound that we have just heard is present to us in a way which differs both from the sensation while we are hearing the sound and from the memory image of something heard days or weeks ago."
"If it is right, it applies inter alia to the sentences whereby we express our beliefs to others and to ourselves."
"I saw besides something like this: Someone suddenly sees an appearance which he does not recognize"
"I do it by pointing to something red."
"You have an image of the past occurrence, and you say to yourself: Yes, that's how it was."
"I will speak in most of the text as if the names I deal with are part of English, French, etc."
"But we need not stay to consider them, because, in order to prove that we cannot know any external objects, he has also to disprove what he calls the philosophic theory the theory that we can know things which we do observe, to be caused by external objects which we never observe."
"The logical situation parallels that in the red barn case, but for different reasons."
"nt disposition, sti ll, when we find someone reversing his verdict on a standing sentence in the face of some ohservatio."
"In the second place, it is a very singular thing that meaning, which is single, should generate objective reference, which is dual, namely true and false."
"I have heard, seen and read various things."
"If I see someone writhing in pain with evident cause"
"The general description of the sort of phenomena that bear on our present question is as follows:"
"A general term wh thus cor responds to a singular term will course he of singular extc."
"Or at the opposite extreme it might be a tiny island, surrounded by a sea of bad scenes."
"But such cases needn't necessarily bother us."
"This difficulty, I believe, can only be overcome by means of a methodological decision."
"Let us take an even more trivial instance than the last."
"He is no longer separated from them along one of the two dimensions of time, but he is still separated from them along the other."
"(Nor can we count on the difference approaching zero as we go back in time.)"
"As I have emphasized about these cases, the reason that we can say that Jonah really existed, though the stories which have reached us about him are substantially false, is that there is a historical chain of communication in which the name, with perhaps linguistic changes, has reached us, leading back to the man Jonah himself and the stories which were erroneously asserted about him."
"Suppose that the definition does correctly determine its object, and we don't entertain Kaplan's worries about its artificiality."
"More explicitly: if and are any two sentences with free variables, the same in each, then the respective intensions which we name by putting the Il variables (or 'that,' if be fore and S' shall be one and the same ntension if and only if and S' are logically equivalent."
"The system is norso much the point of departure, as the element in which arguments have their life."
"Some say they can't."
"Maybe so, maybe not."
"Indeed, the causal history of an event an uncontroversial event, an abrupt change might consist entirely of unchanges."
"quantifiers a their variables, and."
"If counterpart theory calls for the rejection of some popular modal principles, that needn't worry us."
"The admissible values of the 'unknowns' (or variables) which appear in a system of equations are in some way or other determined by it."
"It works well for declaratives, imperatives, and"
"If the views about proper names I have advocated in Naming and Necessity are correct (Donnellan, in fact, holds similar views), the conventions regarding names in an idiolect usually involve the fact that the idiolect is no mere idiolect, but part of a common language, in which reference may be passed from link to link."
"There are a world, a unique personal counterpart in of my body, and a unique bodily counterpart in of me, such that and are not identical today."
"I need not quarrel with the view that they are propositions in some other sense."
"Ginsberg is writing for the lay reader, who, he assumes, will fmd his statement intelligible."
"In fact he may well give little credence to any of the A counterfactuals that make up these patterns."
"Smith would only be a quite satisfactory representation of vague words if we failed to discriminate between different people called Smith."
"I am not used, I might say, to saying a instead of the instead of weather etc."
"As an initial guarantee, therefore, neither self evidence nor subjective certainty can be accepted as adequate."
"Phrased like this, emphasized like this, heard in this way"
"It would seem that, when we make a statement about something only known by description, we often intend to make our statement, not in the form involving the description, but about the actual thing described."
"quotes Reichenbach as advocating a similar theory."
"the name 'Barbarelli' turns into the falsehood"
"(Certain, possible, impossible: here we have the first indication of the scale that we need in the theory of probability.)"
"Not that themselves cover all available evidence."
"The Causal Theory of Perception.'"
"Any definition can be misunderstood."
"We now see a way, though costly, in which can still accomplish radical translation of such sentences."
"Habit is a concept involving the occurrence of similar events at different times; if the behaviourist feels confident that there is such a phenomenon as habit, that can only be because he trusts his memory, when it assures him that there have been other times."
"I also want to say a bit about the later famous criticisms of Strawson (whose views resemble Frege's in some respects, in spite of quite different motivations.)"
"Actually, Hoover may know much more than that and have many clues but still have no belief as to the murderer."
"intrasubj ectively than between subj ects"
"Very often the construction can stop even at the first step with all four conditions satisfied, but this fact is of relatively less importance."
"Spelling this out, we have A sentence of the form In the fiction, is non vacuously true iff, whenever is one of the collective belief worlds of the community of origin off, then some world where is told as known fact and"
"Everything is in place for us to conclude that Henry's belief that there is a blue barn in the field violates Nozick's third condition and hence is not knowledge according to Nozick's theory."
"It is necessary to Knight Dunlap's position to maintain that this additional knowledge is purely inferential, but he makes no attempt to show how the inference is possible."
"Basic conditional logic."
"Truth thus stands forth as an ideal of pure reason, in Kant's apt phrase, and transcendent indeed."
"But this is where we were before."
"That we are therefore as it were entangled in our own rules."
"If one went in more detail into the concept of metals, let's say in terms of valency properties, one could certainly find out that though one took gold to be a metal, gold is not in fact a metal."
"Even the terms which we have come to regard as strictly and immediately sensory, like 'red,' are obviously objctive in in the first instance: we learn the word 'red' by being confronted with an external objectwhich our parent calls red, just as we learn the word 'sheep' by being con fronted with an external objectwhich our parent calls a sheep."
"So, if a rule of the game prescribes that the kings are to be used for drawing lots before a game of chess, then that is an essential part of the game."
"Alas, I must agree with these taunts, in letter if not in spirit."
"I shall assume that each subject of attitudes inhabits only one world."
"Further, the author might discover some truth in the course of trying to keep his side of the bargain."
"then the probability of the conditional."
"for I cannot think of any other predicate which resembles them in respect of the fact, that though not itself intrinsic, it yet shares with intrinsic properties the characteristics of depending solely on the intrinsic nature of what possesses it."
"Tensed identity is not a kind of identity."
"This defense against the knowledge argument is presented in detail in Laurence Nemirow, Functionalum and the Subjective Quality of Experience (Ph.D. dissertation, Stanford University, chapter and more briefly in his review of Thomas Nagel's Mortal Question, Philosophical Review ):."
"That there are particular experiences of 'tending'?"
"We say that we are conscious of what we see and hear, of what we remember, and of our own thoughts and feelings."
"This allows us, in considering counterfactuals for the third condition, to suppose that the field contains a different (counterfeit) 'barn.'"
"This may in fact be well known."
"In dreams a very complicated world may seem to be present, and yet on waking we find it was a delusion; that is to say, we find that the sense data in the dream do not appear to have corresponded with such physical objects as we should naturally infer from our sense data."
"For the general case, see the appropriate discussion below.)"
"I added mo')t of thlc, footnote May a year after the rest of the essay left my hand."
"Speaking of attributes, he says: There are red houses, red roses, red sunsets; this much is prephilosophical common sense in which we must all agree."
"The meaning of an image, according to this analysis, is constituted by a combination of likeness and associations."
"it views the whole impartially."
"By this he does not mean that he took the proposition '"
"Both Hempel and Philipp Frank subsequently brought Duhem to my attention, so I inserted the footnote when Two Dogmas was reprinted in From a Logical Point of View."
"Consider the case where all fifty two cards, or at least a large number, are in the deck."
"Even if I prove my point, I shall have proved nothing about the Universe in general."
"Thought, if of any considerable complexity, is inseparable from lan guage in practice surely and in principle quite probably."
"And yet you again and again reach the conclusion that the sensation itself is a nothing Not at all."
"Taking the definition literally, there would be no convention."
"How do I use words to stand for my sensations?"
"What does being afraid mean?"
"Now suppose I sit in my room and hope that."
"(Yet it is limited in this syntactical service to 'that' clauses that are taken to be true; for 'fact' persists in imputing truth."
"For unquestionably a man does not make true nearly every belief whose existence depends on him; and if so, the question which of their beliefs and how many, men do make true must be settled by quite other considerations."
"But Frege seems clearly to be saying that such an ambiguity is a defect of natural language, and therefore that it should be avoided in a scientific Begriffsschrift."
"There is no evident criterion whereby to strip such effects away and leave ust the meaning of 'Gavagai' properly so called whatever meaning properly so called may be."
"I said We form thepicture etc."
"And similarly, in general, what is essential in a symbol is what all symbols that can serve the same purpose have in common."
"Though this can only be decided by comparison with other members of the species, and thus exposes us to the need of comparison which we thought an objection to Professor Lloyd Morgan's definition."
"This argument suggests that, since our only reason for supposing two facts to be causally connected is that we have found them constantly conjoined in the past, and since it does not follow from the fact that they have been conjoined ever so many times, that they always will be so, therefore we cannot know that they always will be so, and hence cannot know that they are causally connected."
"Someone must have formulated it, and submitted it to logical examination."
"Thus I freely admit that in arriving at my proposals I have been guided, in the last analysis, by value judgments and predilections."
"One is that analytical hypotheses are confirmed in the field."
"(see my note again)."
"That does not alter the fact that it was true enough in its original context."
"When we ask him what he means he explains that the words mean Thank heaven, it'll soon stop raining."
"My difliculty can also be shewn like this: I am sitting talking to a friend."
"It is self evident that, etc."
"so is it impossible for me to be certain what I am intending to do?"
"They have a brief colloquy: 'What is Jones doing?' '"
"Is it essential for our language games ('ordering and obeying' for example) that no doubt appears at certain points, or is it enough if there is the feeling of being sure, admittedly with a slight breath of doubt?"
"oth fond of dogs and the greatest philosopher of antiquity relevant to the truth of the quoted statement."
"A similar view is voiced by Feigl when he speaks of the 'idea of defining the degree of regularity or of law likeness with the help of the concept of simplicity'."
"We may take only what is agreed upon between the conflicting eligible schemes."
"Finally, we have a lexicon wherein finitely many expressions words or wordlike morphemes are assigned to categories."
"On this view, the theory would have to be regarded as falsified if experiments resulting in measurements of 'forbidden accuracy' could be carried out."
"It may indeed be protested that something tantamount to the use of indicator words is finally unavoidable, at least in the teaching of the terms which are to be made to supplant the indicator words."
"The theory will imply a lot of observation conditionals, as I call them,' each of which says that if certain observable conditions are met then a certa in observable event will occur."
"I cannot help feeling that the problem raised. ."
"But this is like a clumsy expedient."
"A Goedelized Formulation of the Prediction Paradox.'"
"If later we are told that when the soldiers came the beggars went, we know who ended up in town and who did not."
"That is to say, the thought in the mind of a person using a proper name correctly can generally only be expressed explicitly if we replace the proper name by a description."
"It amounts merely to this: That we cannot,"
"(Similarly one says You will do this not as a prophecy but as a command."
"But the analogy is imperfect."
"Intricate brain processes, which neurologists are illuminating bit by bit, intervene between this neural input and perceptio."
"To be is to be the Value of a Variable (or to be Some Value of Some Variables)."
"The notion of a possible world is familiar in its own right, philosophically fruitful, and tolerably clear."
"might mean: From what you are now deducing it (have you just deduced it)?"
"the 'object' of a sensation: this also without yet attempting to say what I mean by the word."
"We have therefore still to seek for some principle which shall enable us to know that the future will follow the same laws as the past."
"I suggested this method of intersection', is true in the original fiction iff is true in every fragment."
"A triangle can really be standing up in one picture, be hanging in another, and can in a third be something that has fallen over."
"Winnie's proof does not show that a theory is multiply realized in my sense unless the postulate of the theory is free of mixed terms: predicates whose extension includes theoretical entities, and the like."
"Similarly, of course, something with a different chemical composition from water would not be water."
"Philosophers, using the disquotational principle, have concluded that Jones believes that Cicero was bald but that Tully was not."
"The person one gives the definition to doesn't know what one wants to call two"
"Hence Nozick's third condition is not satisfied: even if I had been introduced to a four year old, I might have believed that I had not been introduced to a four year old."
"Yet, according to Hume, the supposed self is simply constructed from a bundle of such impressions that in principle could each '<U+FB02>oat' independently of any other impressions, let alone a bearer."
"Socrates is human' as simply an abbreviated form of 'Socrates is a man', and accepts Russell's interpretation of the latter, thus eliminating the 'is' of predication altogether."
"I think of the child as first mastering this construction, like the free observation categorical, simply as a generalized expression of expec tation:"
"But that is another story, and I shall continue to postpone it."
"If regarded as a sensation, my image has all the marks of the supernatural."
"It is possible to interpret numerical probability as applying to a subsequence (picked out from the logical probability relation) for which a system of measurement can be defined, on the basis of frequency estimates."
"or ('the throw is in fact not a five')."
"More likely, someone ran into the President and he was so youthful looking that he was mistaken to be a teaching fellow, not the President."
"'s belief that the dictator has died satisfies the first three conditions, but Nozick agrees with Harman's intuition that he does not know."
"must both be logically possible."
"Everything is self identical,' or."
"Science is a unified structure, and in principle it is the structure as a whole, and not its component statements one hy one, that experience confirms or shows to be imperfect."
"It would hardly be a party otherwise."
"However, we have seen that Frege does not hold that tensed sentences (and senses involving demonstratives and indexicals) shift their senses from time to time (context to context)."
"part way along the causal chain."
"But if lalji is true, then so in turn is p( jJ), by a. ."
"That is why it is peculiar to say, out of the blue, All Fred's children are asleep, and Fred has children."
"Our a of talking of meaning a thus misleading."
"Both sorts economy, though prima facie incompatible, arc valuable in their ,cpa rate ways."
"Fixing the proposition, the time, and the number, we have our proposition X"
"(Or if, as some think, Hume and Heimson are aggregates spread over many worlds, there could be some world such that the Hume part and the Heimson part that inhabit that world are identical."
"Then can one at one time mean the word is as is called and the word blue as 'blue' and another time mean is really as is"
"And this is an example of something I think is not the case."
"(Consider the description: 'Suppose we all spoke German.'"
"Now what I call a 'statementequation' is obtained if we decide, with respect to some statementfunction, to admit only such values for substitution as turn this function into a true statement."
"But we must expect no simple picture, no easy answers."
"We shall do well to digress now into a brief appraisal of the role definition in formal work."
"A modified version of Tarski's Convention holds in the sense of the conditional T(k) T(neg(k)"
"(The empty class cannot be depicted in our diagram on the left, just because it is a subclass of every class and would therefore have to appear, so to speak, everywhere.)"
"I might ask: How could I be making a mistake about my name being."
"We may say that an animal experiences an occurrence when this occurrence modifies the animal's subsequent behaviour, ie when it is the mnemic portion of the cause of future occurrences in the animal's life."
"Don't try saying you include as little of the cheese as possible, for however much you include, you could have included less."
"If I say this mountain didn't exist half an hour ago that is such a strange statement that it is not clear what I mean."
"Maybe I will say something about the mind body problem in the course of these talks."
"That's why there's no right answer to the question whether these words (written on the Stanford campus) were written in Silicon Valley."
"Then what am I doiag with that proposition?"
"Similarly, if I erroneously think that Aristotle wrote such and such passage, I may perhaps sometimes use 'Aristotle' to refer to the actual author of the passage, even though there is no ambiguity in my use of the name."
"But our theoretical starting point in the first two sections concerned proper names and belief."
"But you surely must at least have disposed yourself in a definite way in order to guess the time; and you don't take just any idea of a time of day as yielding the correct time!"
"We call this an ekphoric influence, and stimuli having this character are called ekphoric stimuli."
", that It might have existed without producing the .sensatl.the sensation of heat."
"how('n'r d('ter llHl<U+FFFD>ltl', doc."
"Had either of these beliefs been false, surely I would not have existed!"
"Where descriptions are concerned, there is no longer any difficulty in affirming or denying being. '"
"It is pretty good; possibly it can be stretched to cover a case like this."
"For instance, consider a simple word inhabited by just one atom."
"You can think now of this now of this as you look at it, can regard it now as this now as this, and then you will see it now this way, now /j."
"or I do not believe p' or equivalently '"
"I will try to state briefly and clearly what seem to me the main arguments against the view that these are merely psychological ideas; although, in doing so, I am faced with a certain difficulty."
": the contexts involved did not express genuine properties, scopes were confused, or coincidence between individual concepts was confused with identity between individuals."
"Modality and Reference.'"
"And I can see it in various aspects according to the fiction I surround it with."
"I do not wish to argue the extent to which he is right here."
"Addendum, One of the more important ideas of this book is that of the (empirical, or informative) content of a theory."
"At the same time we can consistently agree with common sense (and I think we should) that what matters in questions of personal identity even in the problem cases is identity."
"I may also convince someone else that I 'can't be making a mistake'."
"At you reach the center; then and forevermore your chance of reaching it by noon is."
"An operator without double indexing is discussed in qvist, Modal Logic with Subjunctive Conditionals and Dispositional Predicates the operator was introduced in Vlach, Now and Then."
"Here a certain planet was seen in the morning, and it was seen in the evening; and it just turned out later on as a matter of empirical fact that they were one and the same planet."
"It is much more difficult to assert that all the statements in the sequence just described are true."
"But I must know if I am in pain!"
"Given a world and possible sentence, let be the opinionated probability function with belief world, revise according to our given method of revising probability functions, and let A be the belief world of the resulting opinionated probability function A."
"P(x) is to be true of the objects in false of those in undefined otherwise."
"We may not make them easier by approximations in which expected values replace chance distributions."
"In I had heard the example given by Max Black (in another context), in comments, unpublished as far as I know, on a paper by Arthur Pap."
"The logical principle is as follows: 'Suppose it known that if this is true, then that is true."
"D.R. case Kaplan cites, or the 'London' example."
"I may now, then, at last approach the main question of my paper."
"Thus we see that more measurements are needed for a falsification; that the hypothesis is compatible with greater variations in the results of measurements; and that it is therefore more difficult to falsify: it is falsifiable to a lesser degree."
"In some counterfactual situations the stick might have been longer and in some shorter, if various stresses and strains had been applied to it."
"No doubt many other examples could be given."
"We also say: You can see that I am guided by it and what do you see, if you see this?"
"It is true that, if theoretical importance is included, everything real is of some importance to us, since, as persons desirous of knowing the truth about the universe, we have some interest in everything that the universe contains."
"If Socrates is not one of the men on whom our induction is based, we shall still do better to argue straight from our, to Socrates, than to go round by the general proposition, 'all men are mortal'."
"In this case, he has de re beliefs both about Bill and about 'that man,' who may or may not really be Bill."
"It affords no theoretical refutation of the sceptic, whose position must remain logically unassailable; but if complete scepticism is rejected, it gives the practical method by which the system of our beliefs grows gradually towards the unattainable ideal of impeccable knowledge."
"Similarly one may protest that two systems of analytical hypotheses are, as wholes, equivalent so long as no verbal behavior makes any difference between them; and, if they offer seemingly discrepant English translations, one may again argue that the apparent conflict is a conflict only of parts seen out of context."
"And it is just as impossible to say, 'There are objects', or, 'There are objects'."
"This probability I call 'logical probability'; it must not be confused with that numerical probability which is employed in the theory of games of chance, and in statistics."
"We have reached the present stage in our characterization of the scien tific framework not by reasoning a priori from the nature of science qua science, but rather by seizing upon traits of the science of our day."
"a conditional A is true iff the least drastic revision of the facts that would make A true would make true as well."
"Then, unless falsifies, we should be able to form statenames, in the mechanical vocabulary of such that implies that the states thus named are related to one another, and to the appropriate inputs and outputs, by the given transition laws."
"For the present, therefore, let us forget these problems, and try to discover what actually occurs in memory."
"Keynes's condition and conclusion correspond (cf."
"Let us forget about any iterations either of operators such as 'believes that', or of referring to a sense."
"So if we extend the analysis, and allow causation by quasi dependence, that solves our problem."
"But many cases fall in between."
"One would like to speak of the function of a word in this sentence."
"Only those who are practised in dealing with abstractions can readily grasp a general principle without the help of instances."
"It is not enforced by means of sanctions except to the extent that, because one has some sort of reason to conform, something bad may happen if one does not."
"It is a property that plenty of poached eggs actually have."
"I am not speaking of judgements as to what is useful or as to what is virtuous, for such judgements do require empirical premisses; I am speaking of judgements as to the intrinsic desirability of things."
"Thus a description will mean any phrase of the form 'the so and so' in the singular."
"I think we cannot help ana lyzing them."
"Above all, don't wonder What can be going on in the eyes or brain?"
"Where two principles really do meet which cannot be reconciled with one another, then each man declares the other a fool and heretic."
"What we objctively have is ust an evolving adj ustment to nature, reflected in an evolving set of dispositions to be prompted by stimulations to assent to or dissent from sen tences."
"Betty believes that she herself. . ')."
"Essence and counterpart are interdefinable."
"On this score alone, therefore, one might still put a premium on explanations that appeal to physical objcts and not to a bstract ones, even if abstract objcts be grud!(ingly admitted too for their efficacy elsewhere in the theory."
"In a concrete case I can indeed ask Why did I say that, what did I mean by it?"
"We can do this by measuring the momenta or the energies of single electrons; and as we know the position, we shall thus obtain both position and momentum."
"Features of our actual future history may be well hidden, sure enough, and they might well enter into sets of conditions and laws sufficient to postdetermine, but what they will not do is carry over into the counterfactual situation without."
"Let's write this in a compact form, allowing ourselves to use the existential quantifier, as Russell does sometimes."
"(For instance, what if many of the firms that went broke came into existence during, and because of, the depression itself?"
"Accordingly, when we judge I have seen before, we judge falsely if this is taken as applying to the actual constituent of the world that we are seeing at the moment."
"c, (n are any categories, either basic or derived, we have a derived category which we will write (cjcl. . ,)."
"The only kinds of belief, which he definitely mentions as not founded on experience, are popular superstitions on the one hand, and certain religious and philosophical beliefs, on the other."
"See the Santa Claus and Madagascar cases in Naming and Necessity."
"When in relativity theory momentum is found to be not quite proportional to velocity, despite its original definition as mass times velocity, there is no flurry over redefinition or contradiction in terms, and I don't think there should be."
"We just imagine the situation where I didn't decide to give this lecture or decided to give it on some other day."
"I hope to elaborate on the utility of this device of imagining a hypothetical language elsewhere."
"We do not know the outcome of the election, and so we do not know the truth value"
"that we were mistaken yesterday; that the statement was false even yesterday timelessly false but that we erroneously 'took it for true'."
"Now suppose that some process in some region does not itself exhibit this pattern of dependence; but suppose that in its intrinsic character it is just like processes in other regions (of the same world, or other worlds with the same laws) situated in various surroundings."
"Here in our actual world it happens to name the number."
"The Secretary probably had a belief that I should write this paper, and I have made his belief true by writing it."
"But the events of a past moment are not subdivisible into temporal parts and therefore cannot change."
"I say that always when I make such a judgment, I can pick out the one, among the objects presented to me at the time, about which I am making it; but I have only said that in general I am not judging with regard to this object that it is a thing of the kind, for which the term, which seems to express the predicate of my judgment, is a name."
"A rabbit appears, the native says Gavagai,' and the translator conjectures 'Rabbit.'"
", nd edition English translation by."
"I l': by both the earlier and the later work of their mentor Wittgenstein."
"And now the impressiveness retreats to these illusions, to the problems."
"A sentence of the simple subject predicate form will be true if the predicate is true of the (semantic) referent of its subject; false, if either the subject has no semantic referent or the predicate is not true of the semantic referent of the subject."
"note to section and sections and .)"
"But, just as the first fact is not damaging to the identification of heat and the motion of molecules, so the second fact is not at all damaging to the identification of a mental state with the corresponding brain state."
"cc Nelson Goodman and <U+FFFD>!"
"In wondering whether you will survive the battle, we said, you wonder whether the continuant person that includes your present stage is identical with any of the continuant persons that continue beyond the battle."
"I do not mean to say that actual has different meanings in the languages used in different worlds, so that for any world, the actual world is a proper name of in the native language of."
"as having a common sentence radical specifying the state of affairs consisting of your being late, but differing in their moods: declarative, imperative, and interrogative."
"In Lecture I we criticized the analysis of a presentation into act, content and object."
"Schilpp and now in my Conjectures and Refutations, and."
"Besides being consistent, an empirical system should satisfy a further condition: it must be falsifiable."
"I would have liked to have thought that we were acquainted only with the things in our minds, but that never appears to have been Russell's view."
"Mere non identity, then, may be a weak conclusion."
"They do give us reason to suppose that, for each egg, there has probably existed a hen which at some time stood to the egg in question in that relation which we have observed to hold between an egg and a hen, when we observed the hen laying an egg."
"rege, and it attained its full flower in Russell's doctrine singular descriptions as in complete symbols."
"inter changed, and then define the stimulus mea as the ordered pair of the two."
"I shall return to it at the end of the present course of lectures."
"Should such a thing occur, science would have to try to explain it, ie to derive it from laws."
"meter shews that my blood pressure rises."
"If anyone thinks about this seriously, I think he will see that therefore probably his original account of identity was not necessary, and probably not possible, for the problems it was originally meant to solve, and that therefore it should be dropped, and identity should just be taken to be the relation between a thing and itself."
"By contrast, a rule for constructing an empirical sequence would be, for instance: 'The nth element of the sequence shall be if, and only if, the nth toss of the coin shows tails.'"
"Whatever we know about them determines the referent of the name as the unique thing satisfying those properties."
"as 'far too strong,' though he still endorses weaker versions."
"With regard to particular past events, either in their own lives or in those of other people, men very frequently have ideas, which it seems highly improbable that any man will ever be able to verify."
"but can't; for my voting Republican is not compossible with the fact that it was true already in the year that I was not going to vote Republican years later."
"(Likewise for the god on the coldest mountain in and the god on the tallest mountain in.)"
"One can't yet say to a child who is just beginning to speak and can use the words red and blue Come on, you know what this colour is called!."
"Would that not be like the hypothesis of our having miscalculated in all our calculations. ."
"If the objects of Lingen's attitudes are to play their proper role in a systematic account of his deliberation, they must discriminate between these two cases."
"I want to say: it's not tha.t on some points"
"My views and Kripke's overlap to some extent."
"I am to obey it; that is, as my eye travels along the line, a voice within me says:"
"For, if our way of framing criteria is such as to preclude, frequently, any confirmation of the more complex of two rival hypothe ses, then we may indeed fairly say that the simpler hypothesis stands the better chance confirmation; and such, precisely, was the maxim of the simplicity of nature."
"It was made by Bentham in his theory of fictions."
"And logicians may, I think, have falsely inferred that since it is natural to express by If anything has, then that thing has, it must be natural to express by"
"Here I modify and add to their remarks in ways for which they are not responsible."
"And our reference here seems to be determined by our knowledge of them."
"More precisely, it is not any one, fixed strict conditional."
"To say that logic and arithmetic are contributed by us does not account for this."
"It proves more convenient, however, never to let the intension be undefined but rather to let it take on a value called the null intension (for the appropriate category)."
"It is incumbent on any author who rejects the deductive closure of knowledge to state such conditions, so Nozick should be commended for doing so."
"(Otherwise negation, logical sum, logical product, etc.; would introduce more and more new elements in co ordination.)"
"Usually it is an evcnt of his own devising."
"Thus according to the views of Cornelius (cf."
"(The same view was still maintained by Wittgenstein in my paper 'The Nature of Philosophical Problems', The British Journal for the Philosophy of Science note on.)"
"However, to conclude that under this condition would not have believed that, so that the third condition is preserved for, one must assume that even if had not believed that, would have retained the belief that and are logically equivalent (even if had not been the case)."
"If I had to, I too could say that everything is actual, only not all that is actual is part of this world."
"But my visual experience does not depend causally on the scene before my eyes."
"This fact, this statistically ascertainable behaviour of finite segments, may be referred to as their 'quasi convergent behaviour'; or as the fact that random sequences are statistically stable."
"I say it bears a meaning and truth value relative to a language, or relative to a population."
"For when the word 'red' is meant not to state a property of things but to characterize sense impressions belonging to my consciousness, it is only applicable within the realm of my consciousness."
"For the clarity that we are aiming at is indeed complete clarity."
"It may be the case that the relation which unites all those acts of direct apprehension which are mine, and which is what we mean to say that they have to one another when we say they are all mine, really does consist in the fact that one and the same entity is what directly apprehends in each of them: in which case this entity could properly be called me, and it would be true to say that, when I see this black mark, I directly apprehend it."
"I have an answer to that argument, which consists in giving an explanation, which I think a plausible one, as to how he could come to think that the propositions are not inconsistent, when in fact they are."
"do I merely know that this is the kind of movement meant?"
"On the weak Russell language, this effect can be achieved by assigning semantic reference to definite descriptions: the semantic referent of a definite description is the unique object that satisfies the description,"
"I look at an object and say That is a tree or know that that's a treem."
"It arises, secondly, with regard to good and evil, in some sense of those words in which the conceptions for which they stand are certainly quite distinct from the conceptions of right and wrong, but in which nevertheless it is undeniable that ethics has to deal with them."
"Any such exchange of energy will alter the state of the object which, after being measured, will be in a state different from before."
"So the word Excalibur must disappear when the sense is analysed and its place be taken by words which name simples."
"Whatever our difficulties over the relevant distinctions, it must be con ceded that logic and mathematics"
"For it is not really truth at all; and what is conventionally pretended is that the theorems are true by non convention."
"But, as regards the view that our knowledge of matters of fact beyond our own observation is entirely confined to such as are founded on experience, he never suggests that it is impossible that all our beliefs should be consistent with this view, and he does seem to think it eminently desirable that they should be."
"Then someone else says: I believe I can imagine it without thinking. . .'"
"It is here, anywhere, that we must give our account of the understanding of an expressio and our account the equivalence that holds between a expression and translation or paraphrase."
"That might happen in either of two ways."
", that will concern us in this paper."
"Is this sort of thing still philosophy Naturalism brings a salutary blur ring of such boundaries."
"For our purposes it suffices to point out the following obvious consequence of this requirement:"
"The explicit content does not make him so."
"But if we have foremost in mind that they precede that moment in Tim's extended personal time, then we tend to include them."
"But also, what is more significant, it is vague in its scope; we cannot even tell in general which of these vague things to ascrihe to a man's ontology at all, which things to count him as assuming."
"Well, there is a tone of belief, as of doubt."
"that any of the properties we use to identify the man are right."
"only means that it must stand in a certain logical relationship to possible basic statements; thus this requirement only concerns the logical form of the hypothesis."
"One could certainly agree with Frege that each of us is aware of himself in a special way."
"The lives of common people occupy straight diagonal lines across the plane of time, sloping at a rate of exactly one hour of time per hour of time."
"But take a man who doesn't have any idea of the date."
"in my book because I wanted a neutral term to The fact that theories are not verifiable has often been overlooked."
"The study of gases was originally quite distinct from that of rigid bodies, and would never have advanced to its present state if it had not been independently pursued."
"But he did it by using probabilistic dependence as a mark of causal dependence, and unfortunately the two need not always go together."
"Nixon presses the button at."
"The (Psychophysical) Identity Theory is the hypothesis that not necessarily but as a matter of fact every experien is identical with some physical state."
"Let this be a perfect case of normal language use."
": that we as well the child are a position to otice."
"I might even come to believe that there is not and has not been an ink bottle here."
"the ambiguity would have escaped me, and I should have been reporting my perception."
"The only ways one can appraise these attributions are as follows."
"Jack is short', and we have a sentence that says of itself that it is short."
"Likewise, for any path consisting of several segments, the product of numbers along the path gives the endpoint chance of the course of history represented by the entire path."
"Is it not almost equally clear that cases, such as he says would not be useful, do sometimes actually happen?"
"I How To Define Theoretical Terms"
"On this theory, we are mistaken whenever we ascribe effects to dispositions."
"But, whether there is or not, I cannot help thinking that there is ample justification for using them in another sense a sense in which from the proposition that there are in the Universe such things as inkstands or fingers or clouds, it strictly follows that there are in it at least as many material things, and in which, therefore, we can not consistently maintain the existence of inkstands, fingers, and clouds, while denying that of material things."
"(See also footnote.)"
"The point is that the absurdities that disquotation plus substitutivity would generate are exactly paralleled by absurdities generated by disquotation plus translation, or even 'disquotation alone' (or: disquotation plus homophonic translation)."
"Thus the animal's reflex and voluntary performances shade into each other gradually, being connected by acts which may often occur automatically, but may also be modified by conscious intelligence."
"and so is not to say that there is a possible world in which that thing itself does so and so, but that there is a world in which a counterpart of that thing does so and so."
"The following example may perhaps illustrate the fact that frequency assumptions are indispensable even when we may be inclined to do without them."
"In order to explain more easily where I disagree and where I agree, I am going to sub divide the philosophers who adopt this second approach into two groups the goats and the sheep, as it were."
"More persistent discrepancies of the same type can be imagined, af fecting not one native but all, and not once but regularly."
"The point may be summarized as follows."
"I believe that Isaac Asimov's The End of Eterni falls into inconsistency by changing its conception of time travel part way through."
"Absolute degrees of composition would determine, of course, absolute degrees of content, and thus of absolute logical improbability."
"How much qualifies as science itself and not some prior philosophy"
"Various exceptions are possible."
"But these stC ding sentences contrast with occasion sentences in that the su bject may repeat his old assent or dissent prompted by current stimulation when we ask him again on later occa sions, whereas an occasion sentence commands assent or dissent only as pmmpted all over again by cu rrent stimulation."
"An adverb of this sort takes a verb phrase to make a verb phrase; so an appropriate intension for such an adverb an (S/N)/(S/N) intension is a function from verb phrase intensions to verb phrase intensions; or, in more detail, a function from functions from functions from indices to things to functions from indices to truth values to functions from functions from indices to things to functions from indices to truth values."
"For whether there are any individual things corresponding to a description by means of universal names, and if so how many, must always remain an open question."
"Hence it seems best to take either about or perfect match with respect to as a primitive."
"On this view, when I judge That inkstand is a good big one I shall in effect be judging: There is one and only one inkstand of which this is part of the surface, and the inkstand of which this is true is a good big one."
"It would seem that there are two kinds of self evident truths of perception, though perhaps in the last analysis the two kinds may coalesce."
"After a modulus long examination of such a hybrid coin, a novice might conclude with surprise that there are a fter all two kinds Indian nickel, while an expert, re his nu mismatics, might conclude that the coin must be fraudulent."
"But this is not the end of the language game: it is the beginning."
"We may have knowledge of a thing by acquaintance even if we know very few propositions about it theoretically we need not know any propositions about it."
"For instance, we say that in a case of fission one person becomes two."
"But now notice that exactly the same trouble begins also on the notional side, as soon as we try to say not ust that Ernest hunts lions"
"(Ex hypothesi, dismay caused by the bad news is not a significant extra payoff in its own right."
"But I do not think that this talk about experiences contributes to clarity."
"And indeed, there is hardly a problem in epistemology which the problem of the empirical basis has suffered more severely from the confusion of psychology with logic than this problem of the basis of statements of experience."
"These, then, seem to me the plainest and most obvious objections to what Professor James says about the connection between truth and utility."
"There are ungrounded and unparadoxical sentences, however, which have the same truth value in all the fixed points where they have a truth value."
"Hence we are brought to differential equations as embodying causal laws."
"A spatial picture can depict anything spatial, a coloured one anything coloured, etc."
"rhey are there awaiting gradual reification of their designata and incorporation into theoretical contexts."
"And so in this case, even if Professor James would say that he never meant to imply the things to which I have been objecting, yet in the case of two of these things, I cannot help thinking that he does actually imply them nay more, that he is frequently actually vaguely thinking of them, and that his theory of truth owes its interest, in very great part, to the fact that he is implying them."
"The indefinite article 'a' is analysed as the existential quantifier a pretty important case of Russell's analysis so 'a man did such and such' is analysed with an existential quantifier and a conjunction: (<U+2203>x)"
"this doesn't come round in a circle."
"certain linguistic forms, as true and false."
"Language did not emerge from some kind of ratiocination. ."
"The fingerprint vanishes, and the sweat returns to Nixon's fingertip."
"Naturalism has two sources, both negative."
"We may think of the descriptions as defined contextually, following Russell."
"The student can continue the same reasoning backward: as soon as she crosses out one day from the calendar, the last remaining day is as if it were the last day, and so it can be ruled out by the same type of reasoning."
"Indeed, I can describe a counterfactual situation in which I would not have existed, even though if that were the case I wouldn't be around to say it."
"This will be the one which not only has hitherto stood up to the severest tests, but the one which is also testable in the most rigorous way."
"Further, has at most four different values."
"its consequent is, we have a pair of true counterfactuals that parallel and."
"Although it can attain neither truth nor probability, the striving for knowledge and the search for truth are still the strongest motives of scientific discovery."
"Let it by all means get very, very small; but very, very small denominators do not make utilities go undefined."
"Suppose we have two redundant systems to produce the same effect."
"Sticks, stones, sets, and numbers all become, for me, denizens of the world on an equal footing."
"So then they argue: well, that must be a weaker sense of 'to know.'"
"Be prepared to use predicates, open sentences, indexical sentences, or meanings thereof something that can be taken to express properties rather than propositions."
"And this view that when we talk of wrong or duty, we are not merely, each of us, making a statement about the relation of the thing in question to our own feelings, may be reinforced by another consideration."
"Likewise for probability functions, if A (B) and (A) both are then A and must be the same."
"The assumption would thus be possible though unverifiable that one section of mankind had one sensation of red and another section another."
"and lzqu(' (unger,uie) occurrence'), and used subStJtutlVlty"
"Let us consider, say, such a notion as justice."
". . . there is something that he doubts or believes and still blandly disavowing, within the paragraph, any claim that there are such bj ects.'"
"I am going to discuss a distinction that has a fairly long history in philosophy."
"Let it reappear in new guise any new guise and our habit of ignoring it gives out."
"(A conceptual investigation.)"
"We may then distinguish vital from mechanical movements by the fact that vital movements depend for their causation upon the special properties of the nervous system, while mechanical movements depend only upon the properties which animal bodies share with matter in general."
"And, unless we assume that the area, in both cases, really is the same, we can certainly have no reason to deny that each colour does really occupy the area which it appears to occupy."
"These suggestions presuppose that it is the axiom of randomness which is the cause of the trouble."
"The words I am at a meeting of the Aristotelian Society are true, if I use them now; but if I use the same words to morrow, they would not be true."
"But usually we use it otherwise for example, when we ask, 'How many Greek gods were there?', 'Can you name any of the Greek gods?', and the like."
"Further, we must exclude back tracking counterfactuals based on reasoning from different supposed effects back to different causes and forward again to differences in other effects."
"We are, indeed, perfectly familiar with the conception that one and the same thing may at one time possess a character which it does not possess at another, so that what is true of it at one time may not be true of it at another."
"Likewise I translated ')"
"Physical objects in this genero lls sense constitute a fairly Llv uni<U+FFFD> verse, but more is wanted notably numbers."
"But I have done nothing to explain why ignorant folk accept those same counterfactuals."
"Presumably, the method used to arrive at '"
"For the present we may ignore beliefs, and regard a man's knowledge as actually consisting in what he says and does."
"For our present purposes, what we want are images of the agent's credence function on his various options."
"But in the present revision of counterpart theory, de re modal predications are not in general transparent."
"Had I not entered this room at all, or had I entered it blindfolded, these visual impressions would never have existed."
"The two must possess the same logical (mathema cal) multiplicity."
"Only if the asymmetry between verification and falsification is taken into account that asymmetry which results from the logical relation between theories and basic statements is it possible to avoid the pitfalls of the problem of induction."
"A kind of objectivity, to begin with, appropriate to the aims of science: truth becomes invariant with respect to speaker and oc casion."
"If so, then reversed causation and time travel are not excluded altogether, but can occur only where there are local exceptions to these asymmetries."
"But for these random movements, they would never acquire the experience which afterwards enables them to produce the right movement."
"To create this phenomenon, it would seem that God need only create beings with fibers capable ofthe appropriate type ofphysical stimulation; whether the beings are conscious or not is irrelevant here."
"But soon the beggars came after them, so they went home."
"But in place of, a new objection arises."
"above; also see footnote above."
"and then you can judge for yourself whether I can be mistaken For example,"
"And the term material thing certainly is and can be correctly used to mean simply things such as these in that respect whatever it may be."
"Suppose, further, that I have not thought about my breakfast in the meantime, and that I did not, while I was eating it, put into words what it consisted of."
"We need not go into all these subtleties here."
"When a mistake is not possible."
"As I've indicated, there are others, even more recently, who appear to agree."
"If you listen to a man playing the pianola without looking at him, you will have images of his hands on the keys as if he were playing the piano; if you suddenly look at him while you are absorbed in the music, you will experience a shock of surprise when you notice that his hands are not touching the notes."
"As if no explanation were needed, for we are in any case already acquainted with the matter."
"our primitive if idiom essentially, is the condition of being obtainable from If if then"
"Nor am I interpreting that situation and its antecedents."
"Likewise for an open sentence with any number of places."
"The arbitrary variation might vanish part way through the calculation, leaving the rest determinate."
"This is Russell's distinction of scope."
"Phtlosophy and A nal Oxford and New York: Blackwell and Philosophical Library,."
"he dies, never mind when and how."
"The largest intrinsic fixed point is the unique 'largest' interpretation of T(x) which is consistent with our intuitive idea of truth and makes no arbitrary choices in truth assignments."
"Change the underlying set of things and we change the sets of extensions, indices, and Carnapian intensions."
"(I count this simply as one respect of similarity, pace Jaakko Hintikka who says that I ought to have considered match of origins as well as similarity."
"We would recognize any particular dog in his recurrences if we noticed some distinctive trait in him; a dumb ani mal would do the same."
"I discover that whenever I have a particular sensation a mano."
"If, as the author of the Epistle to Titus supposes (Titus I, a Cretan prophet, 'even a prophet of their own,' asserted that 'the Cretans are always liars,' and if 'this testimony is true' of all other Cretan utterances, then it seems that the Cretan prophet's words are true if and only if they are false."
"The second, opposite, strategy says that there are no events of omission."
"the stuff of revolution."
"Next consider a place open sentence with a single, initial modal operator: a or a."
"But then the use of the word is unregulated, the 'game' we play with it is unregulated."
"The entity which is experienced may be of many different kinds; it may, for instance, be a patch of colour, or a sound, or a smell, or a taste, etc; or it may be an image of a patch of colour, an image of a sound, an image of a smell, an image of a taste, etc."
"Especially by some writers on probability"
"What is the source of his assent?"
"D. or blue and not first examined before."
"If, on the other hand, a crucial experiment can be designed for it, then the system will contain, as a first approximation, some well corroborated theory, and at the same time also something new and something that can be tested."
"Intensions are part of the way to meanings, however, and they are of interest in their own right."
"Its assertability might be diminished for various reasons, but let us consider one in particular."
"Maybe there just is no mathematical proof whatsoever which decides the conjecture."
"Then you give your credence mostly to dependency hypotheses according to which you would either win or break even by delegating your choice."
"this being the same person."
"This is a point which, I believe, was wrongly interpreted by Duhem."
"Hence, as far as I can see, Nozick's own paradigm of the photon emission shows that his fourth condition is not necessary."
"The other, denoted by (B), contains the second, fourth, sixth,. ."
"Just as chess might be defined by the rules proper to it, so empirical science may be defined by means of its methodological rules."
"They can be decided, as we say, 'with certainty', Mathematicians do not in general quarrel over the result of a calculation."
"We have seen that belief and images both enter into it."
"Unlike the Arbitrariness Objection, the Chance Objection seems to me decisive both against Conditional Excluded Middle generally and against the assumption that there is a full pattern for each world."
"Therefore we have a prevailing regularity of truthfulness and trust in."
"(Think for example of the question: Are sense data the material of which the universe is made?"
"(I don't know if I can get it in) about substances and natural kinds."
"The necessity to ascend to a metalanguage may be one of the weaknesses of the present theory."
"There is an event that is accidentally classifiable as follows:"
"Von Mises distinguishes Bernoulli's or Poisson's theorem from its inverse which he calls 'Bayes's theorem' or 'the second law of great numbers'."
"I will say that some philosophers somehow change the modality in this characterization from can to must."
"Isn't it something like a picture?"
"also the remarks on 'quasi induction' in section.)"
"But still, although we cannot know it, it remains possible that the view should be a true one."
"Then we would both plan and presuppose that we are going to steal the plutonium."
"If different ways of filling in the relativity to population may be said to yield different senses of the word pain, then we plead ambiguity."
"It is, as it were, a dream of our language."
"These two examples show what methodological rules look like."
", the pointer of which lies between the gradation marks. ."
"I need not take a position on this view here."
"Most of the great ambitious attempts of metaphysicians have proceeded by the attempt to prove that such and such apparent features of the actual world were self contradictory, and therefore could not be real."
"Systems of theories are tested by deducing from them statements of a lesser level of universality."
"So far, this game seems not worthwhile."
"then the argument goes through (with redness replaced by the appropriate feature)."
"may be affirmative, contrary to Eissfeldt."
"Or perhaps he says that some of such and such courses of action are permissible, but doesn't say just which ones."
"I am content that was what I expected"
"This paper now appears to me to be very confused, as well as to embody a good many down right mistakes; so I am doubtful whether I ought to have included it."
"Second: English, or Welsh, or basic Welsh, or basic English, is (in either of the senses I have explained) the language of a large population outside the town; whereas the language unions are not."
"The author purports to be telling the truth about matters he has somehow come to know about, though how he has found out about them is left unsaid."
"No doubt the tone of voice and the look with which they are uttered, and much else besides, will also be different."
"that mean the name doesn't refer?"
"Nevertheless, there may still be passages which are hard to follow, and the time allotted necessitated a condensed presentation of the argument."
"whatever here at our world."
"Suppose I now begin to sing it and get stuck?"
"The state of mind in which we merely consider a proposition, without believing or disbelieving it, will then appear as a sophisticated product, the result of some rival force adding to the image proposition a positive feeling which may be called suspense or non belief a feeling which may be compared to that of a man about to run a race waiting for the signal."
"The sentence is that obtained by substituting the term uniformly into the place sentence (ft. modal logic."
"Often our mutual expectations about the weighting factors are definite and accurate enough to permit communication."
"; I think we are right to explain chance events, yet we are right also to deny that we can ever explain why a chance process yields one outcome rather than another."
"Intuitively, it seems clear that her conclusion indeed does constitute knowledge."
"They must be the same, if the defined dependency hypotheses introduced into Sobel's theory are to play their proper role."
"and (A -) by the stronger global conditions (U) and (A)."
"We hope to choose in such a way as to optimize future progress."
"Again, in asserting the sentence he does, the speaker means that the speaker's referent (the teetotaler) satisfied the predicate (is happy)."
"I am not thinking of the remote possibility that accidental properties of the fiction might somehow enter into determining which are the worlds where that fiction is told as known fact."
"that Weyl 'does not say what logical or epistemological advantages the simpler law is supposed to possess' had Weyl (or anybody else known to me) anticipated my theory."
"Rather, it lies in thinking of his readiness to kill as stable and durable, inexorable, insensitive to fortuitous circumstances of the case, so that he is disposed to make weighty choices with unseemly ease."
"So both of these are rigid designators."
"It is no longer an idle one to one duplication, a mirroring of each word in an object dreamed up for that exclusive purpose."
"I now think the distinction is every bit as empty, apart from context, as that of vivid designator: that of knowing or believing who someone is."
"For the same reason the idealist's appeal to 'spatial spectacles' is inadequate to explain the seeing of spatial relations, because it cannot explain the multiplicity of these relations."
"Even if approximate convergence is cheap and even if it is cheaper still when it can be had without even a little miracle still we can say that it counts for little or nothing, so it is not so that if Nixon had pressed the button there would have been approximate convergence to our world, and no holocaust."
"Kyburg has a second added question to challenge the Principal Principle."
"and it plagues all the idioms of propositional attitude."
"This would not be absurd, because one has no notion in advance where to look for teeth in a rose."
"One observes that something has red hair (or green or yellow) but not whether something is Nixon."
"The John Locke Lectures: Reference and Existence."
"But even here the word 'like' denotes a universal, for I may like other things, and other people may like things."
"The classical (Laplacean) theory of probability defines the numerical value of a probability as the quotient obtained by dividing the number of favourable cases by the number of equally possible cases."
"The desk is flatter than the pavement said under raised standards does not contradict The pavement is flat said under unraised standards,"
"As such it implicitly defines a class of (admissible) systems of concepts."
"(For instance under my proposal in Events, in this volume, the candidates will be smaller and larger classes of possible spatiotemporal regions, more and less tightly unified by similarity.)"
"A fou rth phase comes with the joining of one general term to another in attributive position."
"Hold the drawing of a face upside down"
"(We need not add that is an understandable being, though that would follow if the rest did.)"
"Quantification of a sentence which contains the variable of quantification within a context of the form 'the attrihute of. . .' is exactly on a par with qua ntification of a modal sentence."
"But he has been constantly interpreted as if the conclusion that we can't really know any one fact to be causally connected with any other, did follow from this doctrine of his."
"The kind of thing which I imagine may be happening to him when he insists so strongly that Time does exist, is a fact, and is, is that, properly speaking, he is not attaching to these phrases any meaning whatever not, therefore, that which they properly bear."
"If the vote yields no unique object the namc does not refer."
"whatever, other than sensibles which I directly apprehend, but only makes assertions as to the kind of experiences a doctor would have, if he dissected me."
"I do not want to settle this."
"The relation of the blue to the consciousness is conceived to be exactly the same as that of the blue to the glass or hair: it is in all three cases the quality of a thing."
"That they are far from being so may be seen from the wide differences between classical statistics, Bose Einstein statistics, and Fermi Dirac statistics."
"Although this that two distinct terms are necessarily related is the only sense which 'esse is percipi'"
"Surely a grandmother who clearly sees her grandson alive and well, talks to him, and so on, knows that he is alive and well."
"the comparison of subclasses and that of frequencies must lead to analogous results."
"The point is this: such terms as 'suspect' are predicates."
"Properly, whereas ::J or 'if then' connects statements, 'implies' is a verh which connects names of statements and thus expresses a relation of the named statements."
"This answers the question of how the two methods of comparing are related the one by means of the dimension of a theory, and the other by means of the subclass relation."
"I suppose the reasoning was that, since the propositions and propositional functions are the meanings of sentences, adj ective phrases, and verb phrases, urely they are clear to us insofar as we understand the expressions whose meanings they are."
"Much too much reliance seems to me to be placed upon the correctness of their introspection."
"For this purpose we draw the straight line a through the geometric centres of the two surfaces."
"the phrase my raising the flag might denote just my action, or it might denote the whole affair.)"
"Ralph believes that x) (x is a spy."
"The student knew at the outset that it will be given on one of the first days."
"I suggest that sections to or perhaps only to be skipped at first reading."
"If the answer is 'no', then this fact about the world is a necessary one."
"But a child will not ordinarily stick to such a belief and will soon be convinced by what we tell him seriously."
"There appear to be two different sources."
"Examine these two language games: (a)"
"Then he limited the truths in effect to those involving just the logical vocabulary essentially.'"
"If that were so, then indeed it would be sensible to say that we have causation only in case definitely would not have occurred without."
"Perhaps the following helps:"
"A momentary lepiform image flashed by some artifice in the midst of an otherwise rabbitless sequence might not prompt assent to 'Rabbit' even though the same image would have done so if ensconced in a more fa vorable sequence."
"Every psychical phenomenon is characterized by what the scholastics of the Middle Ages called the intentional (also the mental) inexistence of an object, and what we, although with not quite unambiguous expressions, would call relation to a content, direction towards an object (which is not here to be understood as a reality), or immanent objectivity."
"If the conditions are vague and indeterminate, or otherwise problematic, in some case where the question whether one knows is itself clear, that in and of itself is enough to show that the conditions do not define the concept of knowledge."
"Some have embraced the other side of the coin and have held 'Because of this argument about necessity, identity statements between names have to be knowable a priori, so, only a very special category of names, possibly, really works as names; the other things are bogus names, disguised descriptions, or something of the sort."
"See ne, Word and Object, pp."
"Even that would be enough to serve my purpose here."
"The generating period of an free alternative with equal distribution must contain at least elements."
"I want to keep a diary about the recurrence of a certain sensation."
"But in the end I rely on these experiences, or on the reports of them, I feel no scruples about ordering my own activities in accordance with them."
"the fact that something or other protects Walt."
"If we compare the degree of falsifiability of two theories by considering their dimensions, we shall clearly have to take into account their generality, ie their invariance with respect to co ordinate transformations, along with their dimensions."
"On the other hand the conventions of truth assignment cannot be thus withheld until preparations are complete, because they are needed in the preparations."
"The category is left vacant."
"But, if so, what more?"
"When we pass next to ballgames, much that is common is retained, but much is lost."
"The answer, I think, is that we will gladly say either thereby making life hard for those who want to settle, once and for all, the necessary and sufficient conditions for something to count as an explanation."
"If we produce a physical selection corresponding to this case, then different particles will travel with different velocities, because of the spread of the momenta."
"There are probability functions that assign positive probability to all three: let be any such."
"Or if one restricts the view to mathematically defined functions, every mathematically defined function."
"The trouble with essences, as suitable descriptions in the analysis of belief de re, is not that the concept of essence is imprecise."
"Consider, that matter, Spaniard with a a a. Lovers of paradox may represent him as flouting the law of double negation."
"If you describe the learning of language in this way you are, I believe, thinking primarily of nouns like table chair bread and of people's names, and only secondarily of the names of certain actions and properties; and of the remaining kinds of word as something that will take care of itself."
"that Tom who or what the person or thing is; whom or what the term"
"There is a certain length which he wants to mark out."
"But Nozick plainly intends to ignore this possibility, as we do."
"The point is that for all allowable scopes (and we will give further details later), the following conditional is true:"
"Some philosophers have argued that such terms as 'sensation of yellow', 'sensation of heat', 'sensation ofpain', and the like, could not be in the language unless they were identifiable in terms of external observable phenomena, such as heat, yellowness, and associated human behavior."
"To illustrate it, let us have another system of neurons."
"Proper names of persons, buildings, and localities are best treated as bservation terms, a par with 'red' and 'rai."
"Fraenkel on His Seventieth Anniversary (Jerusalem: Magnes Press, ed."
"In discus sil) of physics, naturally, we need quantifications containing the clause '"
"If we had chosen a senseless sequence of words instead of the sentence, he would not learn how to apply the sequence."
"these propositions have actually been construed in this way.)"
"It thus supplies the bricks for building the edifice of science, and it says, 'Any building that you want to erect, whatever it may be, must somehow be constructed with these bricks, and with these alone.'"
"One can say that this is preparatory to the use of a word."
"Some would protest that they do not know what I mean by more or less momentary person stages, or time slices of continuant persons, or persons at times."
"In Meaning and Use, ed."
"Certainly not just any description is suitable."
"Once again, one could now consult my own discussion of this topic in Chapter pp."
"But they are not, it is argued, since a German ignorant of English cannot equate them."
"Now I think I am not mistaken in asserting that the reason why Idealists suppose that everything which is must be an inseparable aspect of some experience, is that they suppose some things, at least, to be inseparable aspects of their experience."
"monly thought of as ontological are proper matters of contention only in the form of linguistic proposals."
"As I said, I was invited to speak on Kaplan, and under such circumstances one naturally emphasizes those points where one disagrees."
"Is there perhaps a new problem: causal dependence between indistinct events?"
"In tnC, OntologIcal elatwtty."
"Quine says that the fallacy derives from the fact that the prisoner does not know that the judge is telling the truth, or that the student does not know that there will be an exam given at all."
"His belief via the method of courtroom demonstration satisfies let us suppose, but his faith based belief does not."
"We were told in school not to leave other implicit in this way for example, not to say 'I can lick any man in the house' if we do not mean to include ourselves."
"For example, suppose I come upon Smith foully murdered."
"(Among the latter are the conclusions which can be derived from it.)"
"First, for any world W', (W') =df <U+2211>W C(W) (W'); think of C(W)W (W') as the amount of probability that is moved from to W' in making the image."
"But the present puzzle indicates that the usual principles we use to ascribe beliefs are apt, in certain cases, to lead to contradiction, or at least, patent falsehoods."
"that 'x wishes that, expects that, and so."
"For st purposes extensional agreement is nearest approximation to synonymy we need care about."
"See his section 'Proof and the Transmission of Knowledge'."
"According to his view, the correspondence of a Cf. note to section and text. 'Constituted' is Carnap's term."
"But what is really believed is that God exists, which is very far from being simple."
"The strange fact, from which the argument I mean is drawn, is that, in a very large number of such cases, it seems as if it were unmistakably true that the presented object, about which we are making our judgment when we talk of This surface at the later time, is perceptibly different, from that about which we are making it when we talk of the surface I saw just now."
"The real table, if there is one, is not immediately known to us at all, but must be an inference from what is immediately known."
"This certainly proves that the brain plays an essential part in the causation of memory, but does not prove that a certain state of the brain is, by itself, a sufficient condition for the existence of memory."
"Another notion that would take pains to rescue from the a hyss of the transcendental is the notion of a matter fact."
"All other questions he tries hard to exclude."
"Now, I should say that these doctrines are well known today, but they certainly weren't for a long time, even though 'On Denoting' was supposed to be a famous paper."
"They differ only in the problem cases: fission, fusion, and another that we shall soon consider."
"Normally the presuppositions are the ones predicted by my theory."
"We have not so far considered what is the nature of the initial stimulus to a behaviour cycle."
"For this is the very thing which we are maintaining to be true of predicates of intrinsic value, while at the same time we say that they are not intrinsic properties."
"Our pain is typically caused by cuts, burns, pressure, and the like; his is caused by moderate exercise on an empty stomach."
"However, there do appear to be predicates where unrestricted exportation for belief will not lead to any kind of striking collapse, not even the type of problem of which all our authors are aware (the tallest/shortest spy)."
"This list covers much that philosophers have said about the merits and demerits of explanations, or about what does and what doesn't deserve the name."
"True, in some sense Nozick's conditions guarantee that the method used is reliable for the case of the particular judgment at hand."
"Our logical analysis thus makes transparent both the form and the function of the various partial requirements of the system, and shows what reasons tell against the axiom of randomness and in favour of the requirement of uniqueness."
"Statements of this latter kind can, in principle, be replaced by a conjunction of singular statements; for given sufficient time, one can enumerate all the elements of the (finite) class concerned."
"Is it very complicated?"
"I believe that, at that time, Einstein had in mind a subjective interpretation of probability, and a principle of indifference (which looks in the subjective theory as if it were not an assumption about equiprobabilities)."
"I characterized science as a linguistic structure that is keyed to obser vation here and there."
"For believing a proposition which asserts that, since one particular thing exists, it is probable that another particular thing also exists?"
"It consists of some, but perhaps not all, the members of the partition for which C(A/Y) takes a certain value."
"But take a case where the relation is direct, say, the sun is brighter than the moon."
"The time allotted, and the informal style, necessitated a certain amount of compression of the argument, inability to treat certain objections, and the like."
"Breathing is intermediate between the two: we normally breathe without the help of the will, but we can alter or stop our breathing if we choose."
"Otherwise one would have to ask how the frequencies used in defining the system of measurement were defined in their turn."
"On the other hand, I may well have overlooked important ones that should have been listed."
"Something gets into the active context if it has been explicitly mentioned or if it is very much in mind."
"If we count continuants by tensed identity rather than by identity, we will get the right answer the answer that agrees with the answer we get by counting stages even if there is overlap."
"or I know that physics is true."
"Now I continue the series and draw his attention to the recurrence of the first series in the units; and then to its recurrence in the tens."
"Orders are sometimes not obeyed."
"Frege's Theory of Sense and Reference Burge, in his marvelously titled paper, 'Sinning Against Frege' (Burge, a), argues that 'the basic misunderstanding is the identification of Frege's notion of Sinn (sense) with the notion of linguistic meaning' (Burge,."
"I do not contradict myself by maintaining positively that I know no external facts, though I do contradict myself if I maintain that I am only one among other men, and that no man knows any external facts."
"This view of philosophy appears to result, partly from a wrong conception of the ends of life, partly from a wrong conception of the kind of goods which philosophy strives to achieve."
"To shew the fly the way out of the fly bottle."
"We must assume that all occurrences of terms in the postulate of are purely referential, open to existential generalization and to substitution by Leibniz's law."
"He knows at all times that this is so, knows that he knows at all times that this is so, and so on."
"Likewise, take the worlds where we learn the true history of famous mysteries partly from Conan Doyle and Christie, and partly from the newspapers."
"almost all men know, there is any which is a reason for supposing that other men exist."
"And similarly for other such phrases, such as 'heat'."
"Of course similar things happen in dreams, where we are mistaken as to the existence of other people."
"any sentence we may have cared to affirm containing 'a'."
"However, the dilemma can be avoided by appeal to the recent idea of fixing reference by rigidified descriptions.)"
"Existing theories would presumably require to be drastically revised."
"Recall that, in these lectures, 'referent' is used in the technical sense of the thing named by a name (or uniquely satisfying a description), and there should be no confusion."
"And the possibility of proving the propositions of mathematics means simply that their correctness can be perceived without its being necessary that what they express should itself be compared with the facts in order to determine its correctness."
"And if the sun does rise, my belief will have been true."
"Perhaps Carlyle would associate with the meaning of the name of a great man his achievements."
"Every form of memory will be, from our present point of view, in one sense a delayed response."
"We have, insofar, ustified the maxim while still avoiding the paradox that seemed to he involved in trying to reconcile the relativity of simplicity with the a hsoluteness of truth."
"Russell and Quine gave different accounts of the matter."
"The language habit consists not merely in the use of words demonstratively, but also in their use to express narrative or desire."
"This consideration can then be applied iteratively, and we appear to have a theory of the entire hierarchy."
"Assume that the name 'Moses' refers to a certain man."
"In other cases, however, general directions like can be given that will determine the reference for any sentence, or perhaps discourse, without the supplementation of anything external to the sentence or discourse in question."
"Potentialities Had the Emperor not crossed the Rubicon, he would never have become Emperor"
"Then depends causally on iff, if had not been, never had existed."
"Most of what is gained by positing attributes, however, is gained equally by positing classes."
"Then, forgetting that this was only true when ideas were taken as acts of apprehension, we transfer the proposition that 'ideas are in the mind' to ideas in the other sense, ie to the things apprehended by our acts of apprehension."
"Here the fiction serves the same purpose as an example in philosophy, though it will not work unless the story of the dignified beggar is more fully worked out than our usual examples."
"But we have a stubborn tendency to reify the unre peated matter by positing an attribute, instead ust talking of words."
"Had he accepted it, I would have expected some explicit assertion of such a claim."
"I wanted to fmd a good quote on the other side from Marcus in this book"
"The absence of this mark means disagreement."
"lly but all too naturally, a feeling that the truth of a statement is somehow analyzahle nto a linguistic component and a factual component."
"However, the difficulty of defining a unique probability concept without the limit axiom can easily be overcome."
"You could scarcely think that the two of you are likely to coordinate without resorting to your tie breaking procedures, since ex hypothesi the situation plainly is a tie!"
"Thus moral goodness, in the sense of good character, as distinguished from the actual working of a good character in various forms of mental activity, is certainly not good in the sense in which good means good for its own sake."
"Nor has Unger shown in any way that the new context is more legitimate than the old one."
"I do not know if I was ever in the village of."
"I am willing to allow that my observations of the fact that my perception of a certain movement in my own body is preceded by a certain feeling of pain, will justify the generalisation that my perception of any such movement, whether in my own body or in that of another person, is generally preceded by a similar feeling of pain."
"Some student of mine once said, 'Well, Einstein discovered the theory of relativity' and he determined the reference of 'the theory of relativity' independently by referring to an encyclopedia which would give the details of the theory."
"A particular sense; one that/ //"
"An action or transaction"
"He who responds to the sounds or marks in a certain way also does so for a reason."
"; I say It's a rabbit."
"Regions may be spatio temporal parts of one another; events are classes of regions; the mereology of the members carries over to the classes, giving us a sense in which events also may be spatiotemporal parts of one another."
"For I know that you know that I know that Nixon is president."
"It is almost certainly false that all our true ideas are useful, and almost certainly false that all our useful ideas are true."
"The formulation just given as a metalinguistic truth condition can also be stated, with the help of auxiliary apparatus, as an explicit definition in the object language."
"Ordinarily you always know well enough what it is to 'calculate.'"
"Possibly the answer is ambiguous."
"He remarks that Quine differs from him in considering a divided theory: the objects of some primitive attitudes may be stimulation patterns rather than sets of worlds, making his theory highly nonuniform,"
"We can say that a is true in under some meaning if and only if our actual world belongs to some member of r)."
"This table is too tall and pointed to the table."
"Then, though we can imagine making a table out of another block of wood or even from ice, identical in appearance with this one, and though we could have put it in this very position in the room, it seems to me that this is not to imagine this table as made ofwood or ice, but rather it is to imagine another table, resembling this one in all external details, made of another block of wood, or even of ice."
"The image memory consists of the image of the window to the left of the image of the door."
"(Nothing in the province of logic can be merely possible."
"Thus if we increase the precision of one of the two measurements say the momentum px, thereby reducing the range or interval of error <U+2206>px then we are bound to decrease the precision of the measurement of the position co ordinate, ie to expand the interval"
"Neither paraphrase is mandatory, but both are helpful when the irreferential occurrences draw undue attention."
"If iRj, then jRk iff iRk and iff."
"is in twice two is four"
"Leibniz tells us it is a community of souls: Berkeley tells us it is an idea in the mind of God;"
"Its sense is a constant function."
"One would like to say Telling brings it about"
"Some leading physicists told me in that they agreed with my trivial solution, yet the problem still plays a most bewildering role in the discussion of the quantum theory, after more than twenty years."
"That might turn out to be Schmidt or Post."
"One would like to ask: What is it like what happens when one does a sum in one's head?"
"We would seem to count the death of Socrates twice over in our inventory of events, once as itself and again as (what I am calling)"
", none of these additional stipulations prevents Nozick's conditions from being satisfied."
"He maintains that thoughts consist for the most part of known rules ("
"The range of permissible conduct may expand or contract."
"S. in designates a certain man, Nixon; but someone else (e.g., Humphrey) might have been the President in and Nixon might not have; so this designator is not rigid."
"My life may be remarkably entangled with that of some stranger."
"In the case of bandersnatches, the situation is even more blatantly obvious."
"Do I know that I am now sitting in a chair?"
"Neither is it very easy to believe in features of the world that are not supervenient on particular fact."
"Which of these is the 'real' table?"
"Does the same thing happen here as when one considers what may have been the causes of an event?."
"The sentence has other necessary conditions of truth: the ship must not have borne the name beforehand, the speaker must bring it about that the ship begins to bear the name, and he must bring it about by uttering the sentence."
"Harcourt Brace Jovanovich."
"Let me turn to the case of heat and the motion of molecules."
"The contributory past stim ulation include, past observations of the man's shooting, as well as re mote episodes that trained the speaker in the use of the words."
"Another example of such a discovery is that water is, and yet other examples are that gold is the element with such and such an atomic number, that light is a stream of photons, and so on."
"Ei for each i; Given premise, we can conclude that if the exam is going to be held on the ith day, it cannot have been given on any previous day."
"See chapter for the details."
"Frege himself discusses 'today', and the passage containing this discussion is the basis of Burge's interpretation."
"Epis temologists have wanted to posit a realm of sense data, situated some how ust me ward of the physical stimulus, for fear of circularity: to view the physical stimulation rather than the sense datum as the end point of scientific evidence would be to make physical science rest for its evidence on physical science."
"Different resolutions of the vagueness of overall similarity are appropriate in different contexts."
"In this statement, to my mind, Dunlap concedes far more than James did in his later theory."
"If psychology itself cou deliver a truly translationa reduction of this kind, we shou ld welcome it; but certain I"
"Let us think of a similar case in a game: in draughts a king is marked by putting one piece on top of another."
"If Nero fiddles while Rome burns, I agree that an event occurs which is essentially a fiddling; and an event occurs which is accidentally a fiddling while Rome burns, since the aforementioned fiddling does occur while Rome burns."
"If this is not understood, nothing in connexion with the dogma, can, I think, be understood."
"But such a conclusion seems plainly to be false."
"Earlier I assumed that each subject of attitudes inhabits only one world, even if, as some think, persons are extended across the worlds."
"Semantically these idioms de re of belief and other attitudes are comparable to the contrary to fact conditional, which depends so utterly for its truth upon tacit factual nowledge or assumptions that the interlocutors are assumed to share."
"Common nouns also have different extensions at different possible worlds; and so do some names, at least if we adopt the positi that things are related to their counterparts in other worlds by ties of strong similarity rather than identity."
"It admits that I should not have certain perceptions, which I do have, unless someone else had had certain other perceptions; but it denies that my own observations can give me any reason for saying so for saying that I should not have had this perception, unless someone else had had that."
"Some belief and some knowledge cannot be understood as propositional, but can be understood as self ascription of properties."
"Wettstein, University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis, pp."
"What could they be like: how could one small, localized, simple miracle possibly do all that needs doing?"
"Perhaps we can imagine that, by some miracle, sound waves somehow enabled some creature to see."
"ral science was recognized by Carnap when he propounded his rules al ongside his rules or meaning postulates."
"Combinations of the two, of course, are also admissible."
"Thus the colour we see is a result of the ray as it reaches the eye, and not simply a property of the object from which the ray comes."
"Only when we come to non compound, lexical constituents, can we take sameness of intension as a sufficient condition of synonymy."
"th order': a probability hypothesis of second order, for example, is an estimate of the frequency with which certain frequencies occur in an aggregate of aggregates."
"But then, he will reason,"
"On the contrary, the logical relationships show symmetry."
"This reasonable settlement, however, does not sound so good in words."
"What appears, for that sole reason, most indubitably is; and there is no possibility of conjuring its being away from it."
"Formerly, the crucial clause in the definition of convention was stated in terms of a conditional preference for conformity:"
"Theoreticity is at a minimum in the observation sentence '"
"In this paragraph, I dismissed (because of its metaphysical character) a metaphysical theory which I am now, in my Postscript, anxious to recommend because it seems to me to open new vistas, to suggest the resolution of serious difficulties, and to be, perhaps, true."
"But you still want to call the movement one of 'guiding'."
"insert into the analysis a stipulation that a cause must always precede its effect (and perhaps a parallel stipulation for causal dependence)."
"For what is hidden, for example, is of no interest to us."
"And the same holds for other logical principles."
"Let me say something a bit weaker, if I can thereby say something that will not need to be given up, that will remain useful, even if a certain hypothesis that I now take to be improbable should turn out to be the case."
"an extensional language, therefore, interchangeability salva veritate is no assurance of cognitive synonymy of the desired type."
"This opposition is no mere quibble; it makcs an essential difference in the amount of classi cal mathematics to which one is willing to subscribe."
"I contend that we who accept the materialistic working hypothesis that physical phenomena have none but purely physical explanations must accept the identity theory."
"And this makes the nature of the problem clearer."
"He is supposed to be reading things in the library, but no matter how much he reads, he won't know where he is."
"But surely that is arbitrary!"
"I think, therefore, that it would be a mistake to assert that natural regularities do not change."
"The question is: under what circumstances does it make sense to say I meant. . ."
"Let us pursue this line a bit, taking word for granted."
"The true philosophic contemplation, on the contrary, finds its satisfaction in every enlargement of the not Self, in everything that magnifies the objects contemplated, and thereby the subject contemplating."
"He does not like or dislike that world as such."
"Just as the words I am here have a meaning only in certain contexts, and not when I say them to someone who is sitting in front of me and sees me dearly, and not because they are superfluous, but because their meaning is not determined by the situation, yet stands in need of such determination."
"Suppose it is not true (or not clearly true) that, taken as a whole, causally depends on, taken as a whole; suppose even that they are not connected by a chain of causal dependence."
"(We think only of theu disturbances to which a mechanism is normally subject, not, say, of cog wheels suddenly going soft, or passing through one another, and so on.)"
"In regard to the former, deduction is the right mode of argument, whereas in regard to the latter, induction is always theoretically preferable, and warrants a greater confidence in the truth of our conclusion, because all empirical generalizations are more uncertain than the instances of them."
"It is a commonplace predicament to he unable to formulate a task until half done with it."
"Maybe they are beyond the state of the art altogether."
"The philosophers I mean are those who say that it is only in the case of one particular class of contents (the kind of content which Berkeley calls ideas that to say the 'content'"
"wherefore the C's depend on the A's."
"First, my argument implicitly concludes that certain general terms, those for natural kinds, have a greater kinship with proper names than is generally realized."
"It would also be possible here simply to use a letter, a variable, as in symbolic logic."
"Not a 'scientific', indexical free language one that none of us speaks."
"It sists the inclusion them within the range or ranges of the a a uantificati."
"In a previous paper in the symposium where the present paper was given."
"But, when we begin to argue about it, I think we are apt to forget what a vast number of arguments this interesting question must involve: we are apt to assume, that if one or two points be made on either side, the whole case is won."
"can have if it is to be true and important, it can have another sense, if it is to be an important falsehood."
"(Nothing is a counterpart of anything else in its world)"
"The act of storytelling occurs, just as it does here at our world; but there it is what here it falsely purports to be: truthtelling about matters"
"In this way the command might be said to be given a place in the language game even when the tool no longer exists, and the sign to have meaning even when its bearer ceases to exist."
"Can we say of this man Bernard."
"This, then, gives the real meaning of the identity statement in question; and the analysis in terms of descriptions does this."
"I certainly want to include the farthest flights phys ics and cosmology, as well as experimental psychology, history, and the social sciences."
"It is easy, however, to interpret these statements as correct, by appropriately defining formally singular probabilities with the help of the concept of objective probability or relative frequency."
"We say that omissions may be caused, and may cause, and I have no wish to deny this."
"But the patch itself, like everything else in the world of sense, is of a radically different kind from the things that are true or false, and therefore cannot properly be said to be true."
"The number of elements belonging to, ie its cardinal number, is denoted by 'N(a)', to be read 'the number of a'."
"(In the Russell's Notion of Scope Now back to the George example, modified in the way I have suggested so as to disallow intermediate scope: 'George asked whether the author of Waverley was Scott'."
"If the alternative process is only doomed by the effect itself, and if at the time of the effect it is not yet complete, then the alternative process must run more slowly."
"Suppose further, however, that there is some feature of 's experience that would have been absent had not been true."
"This is the situation when he is testing a new hypothesis with a view to adding it, if he may, to his growing system of beliefs."
"if, when we philosophize, our judgements of assertability or of assertability preserving inference are governed by a measure of assertability such as, that is P(C/A), in which the more context dependent dimensions of assertability are left out."
"Already the obviousness or potential obviousness of elementary logic can be seen to present an insuperable obstacle to our assigning any ex peri mental meaning to the linguistic doctrine of elementary logical truth."
"I hope to write on the general topic of metatheorems and metatheoretical ideas in Principia elsewhere."
"Then would be false, for plus is not equal to the square root of minus."
"Several points of clarification may be helpful."
"But what right should we have to call these people's words red and blue our 'colour words'?"
"First of all series of numbers will be written down for him and he will be required to copy them."
"And if so, then certainly I must have had a hand in causing the French Revolution, in causing my father's birth, in making Professor James write this book."
"of the sequence (ma. ."
"Alonzo Church, Carnap's Anal of Statements of Assertion and Belief, A nal pp."
"The properties of fictional characters can be various."
"I myself am not inclined to accept Dummett's modification."
"Yet if we name it 'Jack,' it at once becomes meaningful and Both Nixon and Jones may have made their respective utterances without being aware that the empirical facts make them paradoxical."
"Standing sentences can be queried too, but the stimulating situation at the time of querying them will usually have bearing on the verdict; and for this reason we cannot identify the understanding of a standing sentence, even approximately, with dispo<U+FFFD>ltlon to assent or dissent when queried on pdrticular occa sions."
"A grammar generates a function which assigns meanings to certain constituents, called constituents in."
"One would like to think: what flashed on me and what stayed there in my mind can't have been the same."
"How should we explain to someone what a game is?"
"But reflex and voluntary movements are not appropriate, unless in some very recondite sense."
"Perhaps a Martian would describe the picture so."
"We have no need of a way to say (A C) because we might as well say A instead (except when A is impossible, in which case we have no need of a way to say (A C) because it is false)."
"quotes with approval, though inaccurately, a passage from Spinoza embodying this view: Let us conceive a boy imagining to himself a horse, and taking note of nothing else."
"(Graff Fara already mentions the importance of false examples.)"
"If Othello believes falsely that Desdemona loves Cassio, then there is no such complex unity as 'Desdemona's love for Cassio'."
"When they operate without the medium of images, this seems to be a telescoped process."
"Notice that the preceding outline hardly eliminates the notion of reference"
"The extensions of'x is tali' and 'son of depend on the assignment and world coordinates of indices just as the extensions of 'I am tall' and 'son of mine' depend on the speaker and world coordinates."
"requirement of consistency still retains the above status when we assign truth wholesale through general conventions such as I"
"So one and the same sign (written or spoken, etc.) can be common to two different symbols in which case they will signify in different ways."
"In a word, observation sentences are occasion sentences, not standing sen tences."
"This restriction amounts to introducing an axiom of convergence."
", interpreted as true, is neither de re nor de dicto; that is, the definite description neither has the largest nor the smallest possible scope."
"also my own remarks on 'fool's gold,' tigers, etc., in Naming and Necessity, pp."
"Another fire has just occurred and the police announce that they believe, on the basis of the usual clues, that the Metropolis Pyromaniac did this one, too."
"More generally, is generated by a set of meanings (simple or compound) iff"
"That cannot be right."
"those technical matters spill over also, as remarked, to complicate the hypothetico ded uctive method itself."
"the first paragraph of section where 'kompliziert' is translated by 'complex'.)"
"It is clear that our sensations, considered as irregular appearances of physical objects, share the causal dependence belonging to comparatively distant appearances; therefore in our sensational life we are in causal dependence upon physical laws."
"We can and we do have beliefs whereby we locate ourselves in ordinary time and space; whereby we self ascribe properties that don't correspond to propositions; and whereby we identify ourselves as members of subpopulations whose boundaries don't follow the borders of the worlds."
"But if the master says that something is impermissible, and if that would be false if the boundary remained stationary, then straightway the boundary moves inward."
"Furthermore, I'm pretty sure that I won't have time to discuss all these questions in these lectures."
"I have been told that these axioms were not first discovered by Peano but by Dedekind."
"I do not think the reader will be confused."
"The answer to this tells us how meaning is explained here."
"But, if so, then when any Idealist thinks he is aware of himself or of any one else, this cannot really be the case."
"I could say that when my hand seemed to pass through the ink bottle I should then be suffering from hallucination; that if the ink bottle suddenly vanished it would have miraculously ceased to exist. . . ."
"But as far as mere accuracy goes, the machine leaves nothing to be desired."
"Notre Dame Journal of Formal Logic."
"Perhaps it is a hangover of instrumentalism."
", fantastic as it may sound, she was indeed the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Truman."
"At the same time, I suspect many have been bothered by the 'gut feeling'"
"No, for we also do not see in dazzling light or thick fog, and it is by sight that we distinguish various situations in which we do not see."
"Bertrand Russell: A Collection of Critical Essays."
"Now bear in mind that the proposition which I uttered as a paradox is produced by a brain process!)"
"In this way I should like to say the words"
"I don't think of past or future."
"I cannot deal with these matters here."
"We sometimes have images that are by no means peculiarly vague, which yet we do not trust for example, under the influence of fatigue"
"No limit is imposed on the lengths of the compo nent sentences to which negation, conjunction, or alternation may be ap plied; it is ust that the test cases for first spotting such constructions in a strange language are cases with short components."
"For Hvi Hvi example, when it bears the principal stress of the sentence, and when the word next to it does."
"It is necessary to prove, generally, that by being known, things are shown to be mental."
"In the calculus we make no use of this identity!"
"It is so difficult to find the begdnfting."
"She knows this on day from premise, but need not be."
", my deduction of the law of great numbers, outlined above, is unsatisfactory; for the part played in our analysis by the axiom of convergence is far from clear."
"This manuscript was prepared in for a review of Robert Nozick's Philosophical Explanations (Nozick page references without specification will always be to this book)."
"Could Davidson's 'slingshot' arguments in particular the argument that if we believed in 'facts', there could be only one fact have been so in<U+FB02>uential if people had realized that for Russell the problem would be a matter of scope, at least when statements about facts are embedded?"
"Though the ether is filled with vibrations the world is dark."
"If one reformulates it as the subject for me, the subject that I am aware of, by being aware of my own thinking, the formulation obviously runs into a circle."
"I do mean to exclude certain propositions which do render that belief probable."
"Certainty is another epistemological notion."
"In case and contradict each other the probability given by to is zero."
"What things are there in the universe whose existence is known to us owing to our being acquainted with them?"
"In Irvine and Wedeking, pp."
"First, it must be synthetic, so that it may represent a Cf."
"It is this main thesis that I claim is implicitly accepted also by Gibbard and Harper, Skyrms, and Sobel."
"The expression Now I am seeing it as. ."
"When we have pro gressed a bit with this kind of learning, we learn further usages contextu ally."
"Maybe it's hard to imagine how he could have lived years later than he in fact did."
"I doubt whether anyone seriously believes it."
"And expressions could actually be synonymous, in the sense of having the same Sinn, but nevertheless have different ungerade Sinne (indirect senses)."
"I hope I have understood Harman correctly."
"He then is referring to Feynman even though he can't identify him uniquely."
"Under this procedure, each spatio temporal particular becomes associated with a class of quadruples of real numbers, viz."
"(E.g. gradually evaporate.)"
"Knowing this, he therefore sees that and are true."
"They're made of dried ink, you recall."
"Pretensions are a mortgage which burdens a philosopher's capacity to think."
"I believe this view to be false."
"I think I need scarcely try to show."
"simplicity criticism."
"(b) Hoover charged that (<U+2203>x)(x is a high official and the Berrigans planned to kidnap x) Dennett."
"Now George wished to know whether Scott was the author of Waverley; and in fact Scott was the author of Waverley."
"In general, relationships like these hold and the material equivalence of metalinguistic statements and corresponding statements in the 'material mode' is automatically accepted."
"Suppose I say of a friend: He isn't an automaton."
"This relation is something, although we cannot say that it exists in the same sense in which I and my room exist."
"Or is it just that there is some other kind of agreement between your expectation and what occurred; that that noise was not contained in your expectation, and merely accidentally supervened when the expectation was being fulfilled?"
"A picture has logico pictorial form in common with what it depicts."
"And how is the 'undertone' to be separated from the rest of the experience of speaking?."
"The question is: How do we compare images?."
"Well, our understanding of that question reaches just so far, one may say, as such explanations reach."
"For the event might have occurred without fitting the description; or not that event, but another event fitting the description, might have occurred."
"Parfit mentions two ways for a discrepancy to arise in the problem cases."
"This idea of what is good, in the sense in which Aristotle uses it in these cases, is an idea which we all of us constantly use, and which is certainly an idea which it is the business of Moral Philosophy to discuss, though it is not a moral idea."
"Charles Parsons, MathematIcs and Philosophy"
"The particles may be supposed to have the (absolute) momentum."
"Now does experience teach us that in such and such circumstances people know this and that?"
"I have discussed it again at length in sections and of the Postscript That is to say, the probabilities 'change' only in so far as is replaced by."
"In his well known paper 'Quantifying In', David Kaplan says that one should not let the complications of Frege's theory obscure the basic idea."
"then there is life on the Evening Star' is analytic, '"
"All that we have said about sentences should be taken as applying rather to sentence radicals."
"If is later than A then may very well be false at our world, yet true at the worlds that meet the conditions listed in Analysis."
"Suppose a parent takes a child to a toy store."
"Every path eventually terminates, and all are equivalent."
"Consider these sentences: Holmes lived in Baker Street."
"The occasion must be some object or some stimulus source"
"He may know everything qualitative that there is to know about his world, but not know whether his world is"
"In this use of condition did I 'hold the method fixed'?"
"In addition I might say here, neither do the spoken words occur to me as if, say,"
"One would feel no more mystery than in the case of anaphoric usages such as 'the latter', and the syntactic rule involved is actually more straightforward."
"in such that is the terminal string of, and, represents relative to the lexicon."
"So unless Ao ascribes to Karl some special reason for deception or secrecy, it should be possible to read off the beliefs in Ak from the dispositions to utter given in."
"But I would briefly mention the following: (r)"
"In the eyes of the conventionalist one principle only can help us to select a system as the chosen one from among all other possible systems: it is the principle of selecting the simplest system the simplest system of implicit definitions;"
"Possible worlds' are total 'ways the world might have been', or states or histories of the entire world."
"Now if had been false, either would have been false or would not have believed via."
"So we have found something that is true in the stories but false (under our improbable supposition) at one of the worlds where the plot of the stories is enacted."
"The equating of an bservatioll sentcnce of our language to an b<U+FFFD>crvation <U+FFFD>"
"Say that stage, is I related at time for short"
"If, on the other hand, it is demanded that I describe each counterfactual situation purely qualitatively, then I can only ask whether a table, ofsuch and such color, and so on, would have certain properties; whether the table in question would be this table, table, is indeed moot, since all reference to objects, as opposed to qualities, has disappeared."
"It might no doubt, be possible to define some kind of causal relation, such that it might be plausibly held that it and it alone causes this presented object in that particular way."
"Suppose I were to introduce some expression I believe for instance in this way"
"If all the truth grounds that are common to a number of propositions are at the same time truth grounds of a certain proposition, then we say that the truth of that proposition follows from the truth of the others."
"Plainly, this is fiction."
"But theoretically the cases are the same."
"We know that all pairs of integers the product of which is less than have been actually multiplied together, and the value of the product recorded in the multiplication table."
"Reprinted in Lewis ); citations are to the reprint."
"On closer inspection, however, this account seems not to give us time travel as we know it from the stories."
"But it may seem to many of you that this is a very odd example, or that such a situation occurs rarely."
"them when we say, 'There was such a fictional character as Hamlet'."
"believes that Tully wrote the A rs Magna in the ight of Tom 's knowledge of Cicero and de spite his confusion of names."
"But, nevertheless, I think it is a wrong explanation, and I want to explain why."
"hviouslv any number of classes, etc."
"Finally we calculate the probability that all the particles within a certain finite spatial region, and during a certain finite period of time a certain 'cosmic period' will with a specified accuracy move, accidentally, in the way required by the law of gravity."
"Consider this lexicon: (a (believes (every (grunts is loves (Petunia (S/(S/N))/C"
"Thus the issues about nonexistence are affected."
"It is ur nderstanding, such as it is, of what lies beyond our surfaces, that shows our evidence for that understanding to be limited to our surfaces."
"he seems closer to the 'cluster concept' theory in some respects, suggesting, for example, that it applies to proper names."
"In such a case, only a decent man will have an interest in remaining truthful in."
"We could imagine that the language of was the whole language of A and B; even the whole language of a tribe."
"I believe that this is an entire mistake."
"Then, according to physics, what happens is that a spherical wave of light travels outward from the star through space, just as, when you drop a stone into a stagnant pond, ripples travel outward from the place where the stone hit the water."
"But is it really going to be a surprise?"
"Even if we travel faster than light, we won't get to it."
"And as for Hume's argument to prove that we can never know any external object to be causally connected with anything which we actually observe, it is, I think, obviously fallacious."
"Intention and Intentionality."
"We have just seen that in the verbal formulation of Bernoulli's theorem the word 'probability' occurs twice."
"If we know the machine, everything else, that is its movement, seems to be already completely determined."
"Even in this case, where Henry's irrationality is so blatant that it is hard to imagine how it could possibly arise in practice, Nozick's conditions are still satisfied."
"More precisely the class of such formulas can be defined as the least class including all formulas of and T(xi) (xi), for any variable xi, and closed under truth functions and quantification."
"(In particular, then, a conjunction will be true if both conjuncts are true, false if at least one conjunct is false, and undefined otherwise.)"
"We can truly say that Sir Joseph"
"Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics, Preamble Section.b."
"Dretske,. 'Epistemic Operators.' Journal of Philosophy."
"To place oneself in such a subpopulation is to self ascribe the property that distinguishes it from the rest of the population."
"It is partly for this reason that it is so important to understand the fundamental position of instinct in prompting both animal and human behaviour."
"If I give anyone an order I feel it to be quite enough to give him signs."
"But to this the objection is that, in any obvious sense of the words, it seems very doubtful whether we can."
"We can, for example, select from all those elements which are successors of a pair."
"For one is tempted to make an objection against what is ordinarily called a name."
"However, we can assume that it is true of these students, so they may do any kind of deductive reasoning."
"Reininger also refers to this situation."
"Thus any information about the possession of properties is relevant, or irrelevant, if and only if the properties in question are, respectively, dependent or independent."
"So if I say I know that I have two hands and that is not supposed to express just my subjective certainty, I must be able to satisfy myself that I am right."
"But nevertheless it does not seem to me to be quite conclusive, because it rests on an assumption, which, though it seems to me to have great force, does not seem to me quite certain."
"(I take states to be attributes of a special kind: attributes of things at times.)"
"But these presently expected values of present chances may differ from the actual present chances."
"We call these quantifier phrases (presupposing that they should belong to a common category)."
"That I regard this proposition as certainly true"
"So it seems that we can imagine definite circumstances under which this relationship would have been false."
"Such an intuition figures in the case of analyticity despite the technical sound of the word; sentences like 'No unmarried a is married,' 'No bachelor is married,' and have a feel that everyone appreciates."
"Apart from their hypothetical causes in the brain, they have a causal connection with physical objects, through the fact that they are copies of past sensations; but the physical objects with which they are thus connected are in the past, not in the present."
"Perhaps we should take the maximal consistent fragments, obtained by deleting the bare minimum that will give us consistency."
"This immediately becomes clear if instead of 'F(Fu)'"
"In such cases a laborious repetition is conveniently circumvented."
"We could even extend the assignment of personal time to events that are not part of the time traveler's life, and not simultaneous with any of his stages."
"Sec From LogIcal Pomt of ew, pp."
"Are you conscious of its consisting of four words while you are uttering it?"
"If we spoke as instrumentalists, we would be right to say so meaning thereby not that they really are deterministic, but rather that it is sometimes instrumentally useful to pretend that they are."
"Thus I do not write 'f(a,b).a b', but 'f(a,a)' (or 'f(b,b)'); and not f(a,b).~a b', but 'f(a,b)'."
"We may now summarize our analysis of desire and feeling."
"Isn't it a cause of the poker's slight contraction, and an effect of my taking the poker out of the fire?"
"rhe bad one, lately dismissed, is the question whether there is really an external world after all."
"Is there a concept of simplicity which is of importance for the logician?"
"the answer is: What general concept have we of grounds for this kind of assumption?"
"I get the idea of a memory content only because I assimilate psychological concepts."
"Forget this transcendent certainty, which is connected with your concept of spirit."
"section become inescapable."
"Nor did I think of the analogy between and and general linguistic rules for anaphora."
"Now of course the truth is that he would not have strictly simulated the infantile situation in learning the native lan guage, but would have helped himself with analytical hypotheses all along the way; th the elements of the situation would in practice be pretty inextricably scrambled."
"We should substitute the indefinite article:, and are I related if and only if a continuant person of whom, is a stage and a continuant person of whom is a stage are identical. '"
"Even so, the objection presupposes that the case must be of one kind or the other: either definitely would have occurred without, or it definitely would not have occurred."
"This reference to absent objects is possible through association and habit."
"a complementary deviation must occur; that is, the segment will occur not often enough ('too often', or 'not often enough', as compared with the binomial formula)."
"whenever applied to a number."
"If our official theories disagree with what we cannot help thinking outside the philosophy room, then no real equilibrium has been reached."
"Is it that rule and empirical proposition merge into one another."
"I do, indeed, favor attaching it to the consequent clause."
"And so also to their identity or approximate identity?"
"Someone observes certain regular processes for example, the reactions of different metals to acids and thereupon makes predictions about the reactions that will occur in certain particular cases."
"A person's face is always changing, and is not exactly the same on any two occasions."
"In this version, her statement has a greater genuine air of being de re."
"Names cannot be anatomized by means of definitions."
"This is how it takes us in."
"It must be shown that he was in a position to know."
"If the appearances from sufficiently neighbouring places are either wholly un changed, or changed to a diminishing extent which has zero for its limit, it is usually found that the changes can be accounted for by changes in objects which are between the object in question and the places from which its appearance has changed appreciably."
"I see that I can never hope to refute you, since I no sooner reduce your position to absurdity than you embrace the absurdity."
"To the same degree that the radical translation of sentences is un derdetermined by the totality of dispositions to verbal behavior, our own theories and beliefs in general are under determined by the totality of possible sensory evidence time without end."
"I think we may regard familiarity as a definite feeling, capable of existing without an object, but normally standing in a specific relation to some feature of the environment, the relation being that which we express in words by saying that the feature in question is familiar."
"establish indeterminism reveal a mode of thought which can only be described as determinist, in the metaphysical sense."
"If I represent it by means of an exact copy and isn't that a good representation of it?"
"And how are these rules present in the mind of the person who is intending to play chess?."
"But worlds are not representations, as witness the case of this world."
"(If any C( is zero we may take the term for and as zero, despite the fact the V( is undefined.)"
"But of course we would not want to count this case; we would call it terminological."
"Expanded by those definitions, an identity oining two descriptions or a description and a variable obvi"
"That I have actually experienced something of the sort will naturally help me to do so."
"Speaker's Reference and Semantic Reference so close that any attempt to explain the cases differently is automatically suspect."
"In general, a sequence of adjoining segments will begin with the kth element of and its segments will contain the elements of numbered to to to and so on."
"The English phi losophers of ordinary language have likewise directed their analyses to sentences rather than to words, in keeping with the example that was set."
"We can easily invent hypotheses, which are quite likely to be true, as to connections in the brain caused by past experience, and themselves causing the different response."
", A <U+FFFD>ct of PostuL.:: for A hstract Geometry, Mdthe tische Anu,t/cn."
"I think also of Wittgenstein, as mentioned below."
"I think then that in this case the Frege Russell analysis must be rejected."
"On the other hand the word wish is also used in this way: I don't know myself what I wish for."
"And here the point is: in what sense 'composite'?"
"There is also a strengthened 'biconditional' form of the disquotational principle, where once again any appropriate English sentence may replace 'p' throughout: A normal English speaker who is not reticent will be disposed to sincere re<U+FB02>ective assent to 'p' if and only if he believes that."
"So far as I can make out, those philosophers who talk of all relations being internal, often actually mean by relations relational properties when they talk of all the relations of a given term, they mean all its relational properties, and not merely all the different relations, of each of which it is true that the term has that relation to something."
"But a postdoc toral fellowship the next year took me to a kindred spirit in Czechoslo vakia: the great Carnap."
"I have made changes and additions and included an appendix, but my solution to the surprise exam paradox remains as it was presented in (and probably even earlier elsewhere)."
"It would seem that Leibniz' law and the law should not only hold in the universally quantified form, but also in the form 'if a and"
"He lacks information, not logical acumen."
"Spe cial traits thus exploited include the notion of physical objct, the fo ur dimensional concept of space time, the classial mold of modern classical mathematics, the true false orientation of standard logic, and indeed extensionality itself."
"Nevertheless, the use of 'I believe' presents special problems."
"Visual experience depends on the scene before the eyes, and the subject's beliefs about that scene depend in turn partly on his visual experience."
"If a language contains an intensional adverb necessar ily' in the sense lately noted, or other particles to the same effect, then interchangeability salva veritate in such a language does afford a suf ficient condition of cognitive synonymy; but such a language is intelligi ble only in so far as the notion of analyticity is already understood in ad vance."
"He would therefore be forced to maintain, contrary to Frege's intent, that not only in practice do few people use proper names with the same sense but that it is in principle meaningless to compare senses."
"in the past, together with now, cause now, we will call,."
"No matter how intense a feeling of conviction it may be, it can never justify a statement."
"Yet he interprets the Heisenberg formulae which he has just derived from a statistically interpreted premise as limitations upon attainable precision."
"I is a roint, made by Donnellan,a that under certain circumstances a particular speaker may use a defmite description to refer, not to the proper referent, in the sense that I've just defmed it, of that description,"
"We say, for example, to someone who has to play a theatrical part: Here you must imagine that this man is in pain and is concealing it"
"Or he watches and says Yes, I know that series and continues it, just as he would have done if A had written down the series,."
"Exactly one of them holds at any world, and it specifies the relevant relations of causal dependence that prevail there."
"I am told that his footnotes include a credit to Dedekind."
"And this statement is surely a further analysed form of the first one."
"In the same chapter I gave other objections of a similar kind."
"Our present task is to see what sort of similarity relation can be combined with Analysis to yield what I have called the standard resolution of vagueness: one that invalidates back tracking arguments, one that yields an asymmetry of counterfactual dependence except perhaps under special circumstances, one that agrees with Analysis our asymmetry byfiat analysis, whenever it ought to."
"An alternate intuiti would assert that, if A is either false or undefined, then A is not true and T(k) should be false, and its negation true."
"the objective world, on the other hand, which natural science seeks to precipitate in pure crystalline form. ."
"I shall deal with the three questions successively."
"and my belief is reliable, so I have confidence in it."
"Let us then turn to a second form of semantical rule, which savs not that such and such st,ltements arc analytic"
"We need only mean, 'suppose that that man had never gone into philosophy at all'."
"I am willing to admit that true predictions can, as a rule, only be produced by true beliefs."
"Let A be true at in relation to iff"
"This system satisfies the weak desire for survival, but not the strong desire."
"how many feet high Mont Blanc is how the word game is used how a clarinet sounds."
"Here, surely, there is such a thing as the subject's 'fitting'"
"If we denote the conjunction (simultaneous assertion) of two statements by putting a point between the symbols standing for them, we may also write the falsifying inference thus: ("
"Alas, this most pleasing explanation cannot be right."
"The proper background, we may conclude, comprises the beliefs that are overt in the community of origin of the fiction."
"What the must here expresses is merely that this proposition follows from not that it is in itself a necessary proposition."
"Don't take it as a matter of course"
"Garland Publishing Company included it in their recently conceived series of twentieth century Harvard PhD theses in philosophy."
"But it is significant that these are not ordinary ambiguities or unusual references, unlike the."
"Thus while his probabilities change like (absolute) logical probabilities, it is my cardinal point that degrees of corroborability (and of corroboration) change in the opposite way."
"In every case, the antecedent states the presupposition in Soames."
"I soon stopped thinking about it or It struck me again from time to time"
"Subsequently all references to 'U¨ber Sinn und Bedeutung' come from Beaney with pagination accordingly, unless otherwise specified."
"If such a conjecture is correct, it would be wrong to take Donnellan's 'referential' use, as he does, to be a use of a description as if it were a proper name."
"That is, he can evaluate various statements as true or false without knowing anything about T(x)"
"It essentially occurs in region iff, necessarily, it occurs in a region only if that region is, or a counterpart of."
"(The proposal faces a technical dilemma."
",ll I truc, is very much the traditional one: fvation sentences a rc"
"The strategy for getting the Principal Principle to yield an answer is the same as before, but the calculation is more complicated."
"Under Analysis I his procedure is justified."
"(What is fixed may include certain additive words, as well as the wav of arranging the nfixed components."
"If the conditional is assertable only when the denial of its antecedent is not, as the assert the stronger theory predicts, then how can it happen that the conditional and the denial of its antecedent"
"The real table, if it exists, we will call a 'physical object'."
"Let us define a (categorial) phrase marker as a tree having categories at its non terminal nodes and expressions at its terminal nodes."
"The difference is accountable to the fact that lIintikka's"
"To take them as such grounds is to misconstrue the relation between a name and a description used to fix its reference, to take them to be synonyms."
"All such statements obviously say something about the adequacy of the theory, and are thus certainly not tautological."
"Extrinsic events or, more generally, events not predominantly intrinsic are objectionable on three counts."
"A bad reason is, no doubt, a reason, in one sense of the word; but I mean to use the word reason exclusively in the sense in which it is equivalent to good reason."
"If had reasoned correctly, Sunday afternoon, he would have reasoned as follows. '"
"In other words, I am presupposing that there cannot possibly be two Karls exactly alike with respect to but differing somehow with respect to Ao, Ak, or."
"Just what it means to affirm synonymy, just what the interconnections may be which a re necessary and flicient in order that two linguistic forms be properly describable as synonymous, is far from clear; but, whatever these interconnections may be, ordinarily they are gro nded in usage."
"And similarly, in giving an ostensive definition for instance, we say the word this while pointing to a thing."
"How do I find the 'right' word?"
"it is parallel in its semantics to operators in other branches of intensional logic, based on other comparative relations."
"This suggests the following definition: a sentence is paradoxical if it has no truth value in any fixed point."
"I occurred after the American Civil War' and 'There existed dinosaurs before the appearance of this book'."
"Let us return to the question of theoretical identification."
"It must be fleshed out with an account of the appropriate similarity relation, and this will differ from context to context."
"In what follows we will study this regularity or irregularity of certain finite alternatives more closely."
"In the latter there is a blurred red rectangle: for it you put down a sharply defined one."
"When forced to concede that certain choices would be arbitrary, we leave those choices unmade and we ask what happens on all the alternative ways of making them."
"No special attention is given to Karl's language at this step; his speech behavior is merely included along with all the rest of his behavior to be rationalized."
"So, though it may sometimes be rhetorically misleading, though correct, to say that something 'looks red,' suggesting a reservation about its real color that is not there, that does not mean that it would be appropriate in these circumstances to deny that it does look red."
"The rule can only seem to me to produce all its consequences in advance if I draw them as a matter of course."
"when last I went there?"
"It is not promulgated by any authority."
"All that is inferable from language is that two instances of a universal, even when they differ very greatly, may cause the utterance of two instances of the same word which only differ very slightly."
"If a Godelian fraud were exposed, Godel would no longer be called 'the author of the incompleteness theorem' but he would still be called 'Godel'."
"When I do this I am said for example to be imagining."
"Rut note that the formulat fails of Its purpuse unless the phrase can be va ned at wtl"
"He writes, this word 'actual' must not be taken as signifiying that the world in question is any more 'real' than those other worlds. ."
"So there must be something else wrong, and this is the question what is wrong?"
"Speaker's Reference and Semantic Reference'."
"As I said, Nozick discusses 'I am sane and rational' as a case in which I am not sure I am applying the method that I think I am applying."
"They differ even in the remote past."
"So there can be many different senses with one referent."
"In a state of affairs objects fit into one another like the links of a chain."
"It obeys the laws of mathematical probability theory."
"psychology, systematized, should look a lot like Bayesian decision theory."
"enthusiastic affirmation is far less appropriate in regard to it. ."
"I don't want to suggest that this account of the presuppositions of conditionals and conjunctions is a perfect theory."
"In that case the explanation is never completed; so I still don't understand what he means, and never shall!"
"For they suggest a different mode of comparison."
"Insofar as we adhere to that idealized schematism, we think of a science as comprising those truths which are expressible in terms of 'and,' 'not,' quantifiers, variables, and certain predicates appropriate to the science in question."
"Thus we come to know much more about the relations of distances in physical space than about the distances themselves; we may know that one distance is greater than another, or that it is along the same straight line as the other, but we cannot have that immediate acquaintance with physical distances that we have with distances in our private spaces, or with colours or sounds or other sense data."
"Not necessarily, as the case of Menard shows."
"I think, however, that it is possible to make the distinction clear, if we see its connection with the problem of universal names."
"Under ordinary circumstances I do not satisfy myself that I have two hands by seeing how it looks."
"Consider the statements."
"Even Locke introduced it merely as a method of dealing with certain preliminaries"
"If you have to have an intuition in order to develop the series. ."
"He need only suppose that, in spite of the similarity of their names, the man he calls 'Platon' and the man he calls 'Plato' were two distinct major Greek philosophers."
"He is in a position like that of a madman who thinks he belongs to a population which uses and behaves accordingly, and so can be said ro use although in reality all the other members of this using population are figments of his imagination."
"In rejecting For this term, see note before section and section of my Postscript the method of induction, it may be said, I deprive empirical science of what appears to be its most important characteristic; and this means that I remove the barriers which separate science from metaphysical speculation."
"Such occurrences as automatic writing lead Dr. Morton Prince to say: As I view this question of the subconscious, far too much weight is given to the point of awareness or not awareness of our conscious processes."
"He says he has not changed his mind about anything, has not given up any belief."
"Maybe at some point it might be rhetorically misleading for someone who knows something merely to say that he believes it, even though, strictly speaking, it is true, and similarly for other cases."
"The idea that a statement such as should, in its normal uses, have a 'level' is intuitively convincing."
"It has been held, too, that the hypothesis that it is not Euclidean might, conceivably, be verified by observations."
"But how do we find that 'bachelor' is defined as 'unmarried man Who de fined it th us, and when?"
"The Indirect Re<U+FB02>exive'."
"Russell and Analytic Philosophy."
"In a certain sense, we cannot make mistakes in logic."
"But what are the simple constituent parts of which reality is composed?"
", the expression 'truthfrequency' is due to Whitehead;"
"People have killed animals since the earliest times, used the fur, bones etc."
"Such a surrender of the epistemological burden to psychology a move that was disallowed in earlier times as circular reasoning."
"But this is not the appropriate model for the examination version."
"So let me not say the strongest thing I believe."
"I have hitherto advocated a not would not reading of might counterfactuals, on which comes out as: nwn)"
"Maybe if I tried to state mine with sufficient precision in the form of six or seven or eight theses, it would also turn out that when you examine the theses one by one, they will all be false."
"Hilbert and Bernays give an analysis in their book, not with the Sheffer stroke as primitive, that a certain particular procedure terminates and eliminates descriptions."
"I. Berlin: Springer."
"The distinction between using a sentence to talk in trochaic hexameter or not so using it is one sort of distinction; the distinction between using a performative sentence performatively and using it self descriptively is quite another sort."
"And in this sense, it is plain that to suppose that a thing may exist, which is not perceived, or that it may not exist, although it is perceived, is at least not self contradictory."
"References Chellas,."
"Philosophical Review ): Stephen Schiffer, Meaning (Oxford: Oxford University Press, ); or Erik Stenius, Mood and Language Game,"
"So it seems that we do not necessarily know a priori that an identity statement between names is true."
"Natural selection works both to improve a creature's similarity standards and to help him abuse his enemies' similarity standards."
"Note that the set of meanings thus representable relative to a lexicon comprises all and only those meanings that are generated by the set of simple meanings of the lexical items themselves; let us call it the set of meanings generated by the lexicon."
"You cannot change a present or future event from what it was originally to what it is after you change it."
"The principle of their individ uation, moreover, is hscure."
"If we adopt this treatment of presupposition, sentences susceptible to lack of truth value should have intensions that are undefined at some indices."
"Indeed, it may have a highly non rigid sense, governed largely by the descriptions of Holmes and his deeds that are found in the stories."
"The nurse says: He is groaning."
"The version: (x is a sloop."
"For instance, there will be trouble whenever, occurs in the scope of a modal operator, in the scope of a nomological operator, in the scope of an epistemic operator, or in a subjunctive conditional."
"In particular, it might be misinformation: it might be a false proposition about the causal history of the explanandum."
"Karl's beliefs and desires should be the same whether expressed in his language or in ours."
"Let us take a finite alternative, for example one consisting of a thousand ones and zeros regularly arranged as follows: (a)."
"How could anyone imagine that they preserve the sense of the original?"
"note to section to search for laws and for singular predictions."
"Does a cat know that a mouse exists?"
"What I call higher universality in a statement corresponds roughly to what classical logic might call the greater 'extension of the subject'; and what I call greater precision corresponds to the smaller extension, or the 'restriction of the predicate'."
"From there on the constructions proceed on greased wheels, greased by extensionality."
"The more terms there are for which there is no appropriate context that would license the exportation, the less plausibility Sosa's defense of unrestricted exportation, as stated immediately below, has."
"One thing I think is plain, namely that we can have no good reason for believing such a proposition, unless we have good reason for believing some generalisation."
"It is a routine matter to determine, by ordinary nonmodal logic, which are valid and which are not."
"not because she was not a woman."
"If we analyse this causal explanation we shall find several constituent parts."
"In the first case we call the proposition a tautology; in the second, a contradiction."
"I descriptions, where someone might say that the man who taught Alexander might not have taught Alexander;"
"Now nothing guarantees that and will be grounded."
"There's a rab bit' remains keyed to the sensory stimulations by which we learned it, even if we reinterpret the term rabbit' as denoting cosmic complements or singletons of rabbits."
"The description of the latter need not mention an owner, in fact it need not have any owner."
"first paragraph, perhaps Burge might be read as after all agreeing that according to Frege different speakers speak different idiolects in connection with names."
"to see why the fourth condition should have been thought to be necessary at all."
"lmiliar definition of ancestor in terms of par ent:"
"But as language was invented for practical ends, particulars have remained one and all without a name."
"I know I believe I know would not need to express a lesser degree of certainty."
"The first of our vague but indubitable data is that there is knowledge of the past."
"But when common sense falls into indecision or controversy, or when it is reasonable to suspect that farfetched cases are being judged by false analogy to commonplace ones, then theory may safely say what it likes."
"Similar claims have been made for gold and for light."
"What conseauences has it We may be dealing, fGr example, with the certainty of memory, or again of perception."
"Incidentally I shall here ignore phonematic anal ysis early though it would come Our field lingu ist's enterprise; for it does not a ffect the philosophical point I want to make."
"whatever in my system of categories, intensions, and meanings."
"Well, they relate to various things which didn't simply make their appearance with the words."
"These formulae, as I shall try to show, are to be interpreted as formally singular probability statements (cf."
"Well, what does the student think on day if the exam has not yet been given? '"
"But what corresponding conventional 'senses,' even taking 'senses' to be 'modes of fixing the reference rigidly,' can plausibly be supposed to exist for 'Cicero' and 'Tully' (or 'Holland' and 'the Netherlands')?"
"Whatever understandings to the contrary might prevail, what is true in an author's fiction might not be true, either because the author is mistaken or because he wishes to deceive those who rely on the supposed understanding."
"But this definition has small explanatory value; for the notion of self contrad ictoriness, in the quite broad sense needed for this definition of analvticity, stands in exactly the same need of clarification as does the notion of analyticity itself."
"If now the child insists, saying perhaps there is a way of getting there which I don't know, etc."
"But Berkeley retains the merit of having shown that the existence of matter is capable of being denied without absurdity, and that if there are any things that exist independently of us they cannot be the immediate objects of our sensations."
"Unfortunately, Analysis is not yet satisfactory."
"If, for example, two propositions and were self evident, and it were also self evident that and could not both be true"
"What consequences has this information?"
"Another class of intuitive judgements, analogous to those of sense and yet quite distinct from them, are judgements of memory."
"So it is not true, on my account,"
"in which a statement pi is sometimes characterized as 'true', and sometimes (by placing a bar over its name) as 'false'."
"the one of them merely equivalent to 'exists,' 'is,' 'is a fact,' and the other meaning something very different from this."
"In words: the chance distribution at a time and a world comes from any reasonable initial credence function by conditionalizing on the complete history of the world up to the time, together with the complete theory of chance for the world."
"As far as our main question is concerned, the first of these two tests, that of our intuitive expectation, seems to me overwhelmingly to favor a unitary account of descriptions, as opposed to the ambiguity postulated in the ambiguous language."
"Adams's position is therefore invulnerable to my triviality results, which were proved by applying standard laws of probability to the probabilities of conditionals."
"(And one 'looks' oneself as one says this.)"
"rhe similarity that marrers, the cl atter of the pans, is similarity for the dog."
"Things can be alike in colour even tbough"
"It would be beyond the scope of this paper to discuss all the issues involved in the 'knowing who' locution, or the issues raised by Boe¨r and Lycan."
"xf Paul Ziff, Semantic Analysis, Ithaca, Cornell University Press, pp."
"Let us just take the weaker statement that it is not made of ice."
"Then fill in the desires in Ak by means of the Triangle Principle."
"What we firmly believe, if it is neither knowledge nor error, and also what we believe hesitatingly, because it is, or is derived from, something which has not the highest degree of self evidence, may be called probable opinion."
"If the two visual images are amalgamated, we might expect a blurred one as a result.)"
"People with inductivist leanings may tend to overlook the hypothetical character of these estimates: they may confuse a hypothetical estimate, ie a frequency prediction based on statistical extrapolation, with one of its empirical 'sources' the classifying and actual counting of past occurrences and sequences of occurrences."
"Appropriateness is a complicated and merely approximate idea, and for the present we shall do well to dismiss it from our thoughts."
"It is not attracted by the pleasantness of the valley, as a sheep or cow might be, but propelled by the steepness of the hill at the place where it is."
"And so, even though we can imagine a case where the man who wrote these works would not have been the man who denounced Cataline, we should not say that that would be a case in which Cicero would not have been Tully."
"Perhaps I shall do a multiplication twice to make sure, or perhaps get someone else to work it over."
": how do you mean that while you say Slabl"
"Still more commonly, does it not happen that they waste their time in acquiring pieces of information which are no use to them, though perhaps very useful to other people?"
"We may tag the planet Venus, some fine evening, with the proper name Hesperus."
"In speaking of memory, we distinguished three kinds of belief directed towards the same content, namely memory, expectation and bare assent without any time determination in the belief feeling."
"Scientific theories are perpetually changing."
"Wittgenstein's Lectures in."
"We use this phrase in order to lead someone from one form of expression to another."
"Ramsey with his expedient of Ramsey sentences, as they have come to be called."
"Not every author accepts the connection, but some do."
"one might say I can say what that."
"Today I should stress two further points: We can compare theories with respect to testability only if at least some of the problems they are supposed to solve coincide."
"The causal laws which our arguments would assume could be verified by the future occurrence of events inferred by means of them."
"can also say to someone Mightn't you perhaps have made a slip?"
"And hence, I think, we must admit that, in a sense it is true that a thing may be true at one time which is not true at another; in that sense, namely, in which we use these expressions."
"(Though Descartes might have gone wrong somewhere, too.)"
"As such it might be described as a tool, or an instrument, comparable perhaps to some of our industrial machinery."
"Actually, regarding genuine or 'logically proper' names, Russell is a strict Millian: 'logically proper names' simply refer (to immediate objects of acquaintance)."
"And their correct opinion on this point will, I think, partly serve to explain their denial."
"There's the volume of the hole or bottle itself, and there's the volume of the largest chunk of fluid which could be put inside the hole or bottle without compression."
"But that won't be so in the general case."
"And how does he know what the past is?"
"Let us grant, a this distinction between meaning and naming of which you make so much."
"Plainly this reason for caution is no reason at all to think that thedomains of chance distributions will be notably sparser than thedomains of idealized credence functions."
"More fancifully, there might be goblins made of a sort of matter that passes through our sort without any interaction, and a battle of goblins might occur in the very same region as this conference (the Conference of the Australasian Association of Philosophy, where this paper was first read)."
"Will it be counted as part of the role of the king in chess that it is used to draw lots in this way?."
"I call a occurrence of a singular term"
"The second, the logical criterion, is quite definite as soon as it is clear which statements are to be called 'basic' (cf. section."
"So, although the student knew at the outset that it was to be a surprise, she may not know it on day she may still be said to have known this at the outset, provided that it still will be a surprise that is, that it is given on the (N l)th day rather than the Nth."
"lOn of the <U+FFFD>cneral matter touched on the past vo pages, see Paul.t'rnay<U+FFFD>,"
"the thesis that everything there is (taking the quantifier as entirely unrestricted) is actual."
"whereas the relational sense, where there is a particular sloop that I want, is expressed as: (<U+2203>x)(x is a sloop"
"Why, would it be untbitlkabZe that I should stay in the saddle however much the facts bucked."
"(Normally all these events would be distinct, and in temporal order; but I do not require this."
"There could be many senses determining the same reference."
"Whilst we assume that the properties of physical objects (of 'genidentical' objects in Lewin's sense) change with the passage of time, we decide to use these logical predicates in such a way that the logical properties of statements become timeless: if a statement is a tautology, then it is a tautology once and for all."
"We then have signs of signs."
"ranging implications for other problems in philosophy that traditionally might be thought far removed, like arguments over the mind body problem or the so called 'identity thesis'."
"He seems to suppose that a few (a very few) religious beliefs may, perhaps, be founded on experience."
"I fact, it was remarked earlier that room remained for supplementary con ventions, over and above the described truth assignments, by way of further determining the meanings of our primitives."
"That possibility is irrelevant to the present case."
"Surely Nozick regards this case as involving a method also, like the grandmother case."
"(Note that because there is more than one possible thing, the variable intensions are distinct: nothing is both the,th and the th variable intension for two different numbers and .)"
"There may, perhaps, be such a fourth class; but, if there is, it is, I think, eminently desirable that it should be pointed out exactly what propositions they are which we do know in this way; and"
"Maybe, if you want to stretch and call it description, when you say: I shall call that heavenly body over there 'Hesperus'."
"When Quine originally discussed the distinction in his paper, as its title indicates, he applied it to propositional attitudes in general."
"In ordinary usage 'fact' often occurs where we could without loss say 'true sentence' or (if it is our way) 'true proposition.'"
"The epistemological questions which arise in connection with the concept of simplicity can all be answered if we equate this concept with degree of falsifiability."
"The situation here is almost inevitable."
"What is Inspector Lestrade's blood type?"
"I may have the belief that it will rain to morrow."
"The former but not the latter would be one of the two terms involved in the intension of 'blue'; and so on around the circle of hues."
"It is a term such that (x a), that is, something is necessarily a, where a' stands for the term."
"If our business were logic, we should have to spend much time on these words."
"In fact, I don't know of any account that is free from descriptive problems or apparent counterexamples."
"As we say it: the reading depends on the pressure."
"There are no coincidences of points in a strict sense."
"The familiar physiognomy of a word, the feeling that it has taken up its meaning into itself, that it is an actual likeness of its meaning there could be human beings to whom all this was alien."
"It does not matter, for the present, just which version I would prefer of the thesis that what matters is mental continuity and connectedness."
"temporally indexical terms like present at all."
"is altogether imaginary."
"It may easily look as if every doubt merely revealed an existing gap in the foundations; so that secure understanding is only possible if we first doubt everything that can be doubted, and then remove all these doubts."
"The dualism is not primarily as to the stuff of the world, but as to causal laws."
"Might it be more straightforward to readjust the terminology and treat the external sub ect matter as the relata of perceptual similarity"
"(What if, contrary to what we believe, our own world is full of quasi miracles?"
"It is like looking into the cabin of a locomotive."
"This theorem does not, like proxy functions, carry each of the old objcts into a definite new one, a particular number."
"In the second case the proposition is false for all the truth possibilities: the truth conditions are contradictory."
"does not say that I am conscious, but that my attention is disposed in such and such a way."
"The appeal to logical implication here pre,ents no problem."
"I rather claim that if had been absent, would somehow have failed to cause."
"Even surface as sent, thus, is not just the parroting of any a rbItrary syllable."
"Perhaps 'sentence' was not a good translation of Tarski's original terminology."
"Keynes refers to Ancillon as the first to propose the 'formal mode of expression'; also to Boole, Czuber, and Stumpf."
"We fit the simplest possible curve to plotted points, thinking it the likeliest curve pending new points to the contrary; we encompass data with a hypothesis involving the few est possible parameters, thinking this hypothesis the likeliest pending new data to the contrary; and we even record a measurement as the roundest near number, pending repeated measurements to the contrary."
"To give the essence of a proposition means to give the essence of all description, and thus the essence of the world."
"Postulate the principle that nothing is in two worlds, applies only to the first of these."
"Again we have and hence ); and hence and ); and hence by substitution"
"I say to myself over and over again."
", the truth becomes false when the contained statement is supplanted by another, '"
"The progress of science is constantly producing such subsumptions, and therefore giving a constantly wider inductive basis for scientific generalizations."
"Let us first discuss this point of the argument: that a word has no meaning if nothing corresponds to it."
"Well, not simply if someone or other would have done these things in the story, because the name 'Sherlock Holmes' is supposed to refer to a particular person rigidly."
"(Evans seems to have softened his position on the issue later, and he is right to call attention to Frege's emphasis in some passages on fiction and lapses into fiction.)"
"(Even variable names.)"
"Are they the same possible man, or two possible men"
"What follows here might be described, perhaps, as an inquiry into the foundations of quantum theory."
"A word can prove useful in such positions as to favor the assumption of objcts for it to be true of, without therehy favoring the assumption of objcts related to it in other ways,. ."
"All this we certainly see or directly perceive now, whatever may have been the process by which we have come to perceive so much."
"It is conceivable that for estimating degrees of corroboration, one might find a formal system showing some limited formal analogies with the calculus of probability (e.g. with Bayes's theorem), without however having anything in common with the frequency theory."
"The term 'possible world' may also mislead; perhaps it suggests the 'foreign country' picture."
"What is to do when he is given it?"
"I may believe that Columbus crossed the Atlantic, that all Cretans are liars, that two and two are four, or that nine times six is fifty six; in all these cases the believing is just the same, and only the contents believed are different."
"For we should naturally say of two things which were exactly alike intrinsically, in spite of their being two, that they possessed the same intrinsic nature."
"This reason is admittedly not premised merely on our situation, our rationality and utilitarianism, our knowledge of these, and so on."
"But in fact we cannot find any antecedent that we know to be quite invariable, and we can find many that are nearly so."
", they are those pairs such that ( )."
"These bumps make us see the value of the discovery."
"Thus, consider again Huntington's systemati zation of geometry."
"(For it is not the same as with the utterance"
"There are other cases in which prediction may be unsuccessful."
"This is not so: I think that Nixon is a Republican, not merely that he lies in back of Republicanism,"
"It might have been a situation in which the planet seen in this position in the evening was not the planet seen in this position in the morning; but that is not a situation in which Hesperus was not Phosphorus."
"This much is a naturalistic analogue or counterpart of the traditional epistemologist's phenomenalistic foundation in sense data."
"Nevertheless, the term 'heat' doesn't mean 'whatever gives people these sensations'."
"In the case of dead matter, however, such phenomena are less frequent and important than in the case of living organisms, and it is far less difficult to invent satisfactory hypotheses as to the microscopic changes of structure which mediate between the past occurrence and the present changed response."
"No picture, purporting to represent someone else and his fondness for dogs, even if it depicts the other individual as possessing all the properties we use to identify Aristotle, represents a counterfactual situation correctly described by (I)."
"(Quine does not in the end adopt the theory just stated."
"Let us write the postulate of our theory in a way that exhibits the occurrences of terms therein: 'T,. . ."
"They are what count as cases when, quantifying, we say that everything, or something, is thus and so."
"For, take as true of ust the classes such that ,(x then. . . )' can be rendered 'Gx(. . . .'"
"We may reasonably expect overdetermination toward the past on an altogether different scale from the occasional case of mild overdetermination toward the future."
"I do mean that it is perceived; but"
"The same considerations lead me to give up any serious attempt to use this preface to amplify my previous argument, to flU in lacunae, or to deal with serious criticisms or difficulties."
"As I have said above, I am inclined to reject Donnellan's formulation of the notion of referential definite description."
"This is what is not so."
"But, in spite of all these reasons, would anyone think of saying that, in case it is true, I had made it true?"
"If you give up the idea that this is a theory of meaning and make it into a theory of reference in the way that I have described, you give up some of the advantages of the theory."
"For I want to apply the word understanding to all this."
"If the causal facts are right, then also we characterize pain as a physical phenomenon."
"The drive is typical of the scientific tempe, and of a piece with the drive for simplicity that shapes"
"The space of science, therefore, though connected with the spaces we see and feel, is not identical with them, and the manner of its connexion requires investigation."
"The trainer says of some that they can already read, of others that they cannot yet do so."
"If I mean something by it?"
"repeatedly leads to valuable insights."
"I, regarded as a person, and my body, regarded as a body, are such that (without any duplication of either) they might not have been identical today."
"Very well, he supplies the meaning, he guesses it."
"If you say 'suppose Hitler had never been born' then 'Hitler' refers here, still rigidly, to something that would not exist in the counterfactual situation described."
"Rather it must work by imaging."
"Some, who have given a great deal of attention to the subject, and for whom I have a great respect, talk of sensations in such a way, that I cannot be sure what they are talking about at all or whether there are such things."
"And Russell here is surprised, I guess, and disagrees."
"Hume believed that too."
"(See also note to section."
"For example, such concepts as 'straight line' and 'point', which occur in every axiom system of geometry, may be interpreted as 'light ray' and 'intersection of light rays'."
"Binders have occasionally been discussed by logicians, under the name 'abstraction operators' or 'lambda operators'."
"This is very different from the type of situation noted by Sosa."
"I will get my million if and only if you do not take your thousand."
"And what does I wovould refuse mean?"
"An alleged event that is essentially specifiable as a talkingor walking, and which could have occurred either as a talking or as a walking, is an example of what ought to be rejected."
"But it is very difficult to suppose that he can entertain mere imagination images to which no assent is given."
"In exactly the same way it is no explanation to say:"
"I assert that if one says of a hypothesis that it is not true but 'probable', then this statement can under no circumstances be translated into a statement about the probability of events."
"Further, it indicates that the mode offixing the reference is relevant to our epistemic Compare,.g."
"These are different senses of knowing: you know a person as opposed to knowing that is true."
"But there is a missing step in the argument, which is that"
"Or that it was an unsatisfactory explanation?"
"My own view is that Frege's explanation, by way of ambiguity, of what appears to be the logically deviant behavior of terms in intermediate contexts is so theoretically satisfying that if we have not yet discovered or satisfactorily grasped the peculiar intermediate objects in question, then we should simply continue looking. ."
"It is the form of a so called 'axiomatized system' the form which Hilbert, for example, was able to give to certain branches of theoretical physics."
"Yet, for all the difficulty of transcending objectdirected pattern of thought, we can examine it well enough from inside."
"This is the kind of way in which we have such a concept as 'proposition'."
"To reckon Pegasus flies if existent true, as Lambert does, we would have to analyze Pegasus Hies if existent into If Pegasus exists"
"This is the conclusion which emerges from the examination carried out in the previous section."
"In the formal semantics of intensional logic, suppose we take a definite description to designate, in each world, the object satisfying the description."
"And what should the opposite picture be?"
"In this case the changes are not due to any change in my views, but to the fact that, in that part of the paper in which symbols are used, I tried, when it was first published in the Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, to use the symbols adopted by Whitehead and Russell in Principia Mathematica, and used them also without giving an explanation of their meaning which would be sufficient for readers not acquainted with that work."
"Then I say that the family."
"If we were to ask anyone the question: How do you know that you did see that statement in the Times"
"You are sure that a certain coin is fair."
"As against this objection, a defender of the orthodox view (if he does not dismiss natural language altogether, as Tarski inclined to do) may reply that the ordinary notion of truth is systematically ambiguous"
"I but a smaller probability value."
"Well, aren't we supposing that we write every time?."
"But this is a bad picture."
"Are they all 'amusing'?"
"I shall try to persuade you, in the course of these lectures, that matter is not so material and mind not so mental as is generally supposed."
"But this association is not essential to the intelligent use of words."
"The other truth functions can be defined in terms of disjunction and negation in the usual way."
"and you can't recognize the expression of the face."
"The more detailed version is one, but only one, of the ways in which the less detailed version could have occurred."
"you really mean: Bring me a slab."
"And these answers would make sense even without any grounds."
"I wish to add here that I have further developed my views on simplicity, and that in doing so I have tried hard and, I hope, not quite without success, to learn something from Kneale."
"Leaving essences in abeyance, we will do well to look elsewhere for suitable descriptions."
"It must not be overlooked that a proposition has a sense that is independent of the facts: otherwise one can easily suppose that true and false are relations of equal status between signs and what they signify."
"But the little hole is part of the big hole, so it spins clockwise along with the rest of the big hole."
"Not to go into too many complications here about what a parent is, let's suppose that the parents are the people whose body tissues are sources ofthe biological sperm and egg."
"The concepts of belief, desire, and meaning are common property."
"The whole of psychology, we shall find, is included among such cases; hence their importance for our purposes."
"Ftfllesdal, Quantification into Causal Contexts, in Boston Studies in the Philosophy of Science (New York:"
"or for short: p).(fp fq (p q)."
"Yet he later wrote a contrasting classic and in<U+FB02>uential paper on the subject (Sosa."
"Is the teacher to say: I was wrong, and he did read it or: He only began really to read later on"
"Well, in a particular case of writing or utterance we see or hear the entire sentence, and a fortiori hear or see any parts, including the autonymously referential part."
", now in my Conjectures and Refutations,."
"These definitions are independent of where, in the plane, we draw the (Cartesian) co ordinates to which they relate; consequently they are independent of the choice of the origin, and the orientation, of the co ordinates."
"Even among philosophers, we may say, broadly, that only those universals which are named by adjectives or substantives have been much or often recognized, while those named by verbs and prepositions have been usually overlooked."
"For someone might object against me: You take the easy way out!"
"Perry and, following him, Kaplan (who in one place calls the passage beginning with this sentence 'tortured',"
"When someone says the word cube to me, for example, I know what it means."
"We may go on to define credence also for sets of worlds."
"For we have conceded that it determines the This case, and some qualifications of the apparent drift of this paragraph, will be discussed again below."
"The linguist has to resolve the potential infinity of native sentences into a manageably limited list of grammatical constructions and constituent linguistic forms, and then show how the business of each can be approximated in English; and vice versa."
"There are important accompanying phenomena of talking which are often missing when one talks without thinking, and this is characteristic of talking without thinking."
"We may not be able to explain why we arrive at theories which make successful predictions, but we do arrive at such theories."
"The intension of a meaning is the intension found as the second component of its topmost node."
"But then, whence the feeling that I have got more?"
"Evidently we must find against exportatio."
"But might not a different approach lead to a satisfactory definition of the idea of a probability of hypotheses?"
"He knows, for instance, that he spends the night of February lying awake and wondering what time it is."
"What does, I think, need to be taken seriously, and what is really dubious, is not the question, whether this is a finger, or whether I know that it is, but the question what, in certain respects, I am knowing, when I know that it is."
"I don't need to wait for my arm to go up"
"I come now to the question what constitutes believing, as opposed to the content believed."
"Suppose that there are no counterfeit barns in the area, but that there are in a nearby area, and only by accident did Henry (driving around) arrive at this area rather than the neighboring one."
"In particular this applies to 'Neptune.'"
"And this implies, as we have seen, the doubtful proposition than any belief which is useful for some length of time, is true."
"Epl temo gy a a '/l'(J"
"Suppose most ofthe (j) 's are in fact satisfied by a unique object."
"(Quine thinks that something like that actually was done once.)"
"Asking whether and how a proposition can be verified is only a particular way of asking How d'you mean?"
"The general form of a truth function is p¯, N(<U+03BE>)."
"If the chance is zero or one, or close to zero or one, then it cannot also be."
"This notion of 'sense' relates to that of 'giving a meaning', not that of fixing a reference."
"Why might he accept C?"
"Whatever causation may be, there are still causal histories, and what I shall say about causal explanation should still apply."
"It seems to be by no means an insoluble question, and we may hope that science will be able to produce sufficient grounds for regarding one answer as much more probable than the other."
"That it has the property of being true on one of the occasions when it exists, and that it has not this property, but that of being false instead, on some other occasion when it exists?"
"According to all three of my analyses, anything whatever is vacuously true in an impossible fiction."
"If an operation is applied repeatedly to its own results, I speak of successive applications of it."
"As we understand in the argument, it seems true even given (T) because of the fact that I might have switched bodies yesterday."
"The general idea of distinguishing neighbourhoods according to their size, and of operating with well defined neighbourhood selections was introduced by me."
"It also seems clear that there must be two distinct propositions or contents expressed by 'Cicero denounced Catiline' and 'Tully denounced Catiline.'"
"But if the ambiguity is not a practical nuisance, we don't need to know."
"Sentences higher up in theOrIes,lve no empirical consequences they can call tbc own; they confront the trl un.l of sell"
"If we are successful with our prediction, we may speak of 'laws'; otherwise we can know nothing about the existence or non existence of laws or of irregularities."
"If the truth of a proposition does not follow from the fact that it is self evident to us, then its self evidence in no way justifies our belief in its truth."
"But that is how we interpret for the generally, so that is what is for any even the defective one."
"But does it necessarib agree with the world of facts?"
"Both papers are well worth reading for the type of counterexample discussed here."
"But they do have some of the characteristic properties of conditional probabilities."
"If, therefore, any one tells us that the existence of blue is the same thing as the existence of the sensation of blue"
"I have since generalized this formulation; for inter subjective testing is merely a very important aspect of the more general idea of inter subjective criticism, or in other words, of the idea of mutual rational control by critical discussion."
"Perry's in<U+FB02>uence on him will come out below."
"Nor of the proposition that such and such people have calculated such and such a problem correctly."
"All truth functional tautologies are axioms."
"I shall consider three ways of giving a precise meaning, even in the case of infinite classes, to the intuitive 'more' or 'fewer,' in order to find out whether any of them may be used for the purpose of comparing classes of forbidden events."
"Thus coherence as the definition of truth fails because there is no proof that there can be only one coherent system."
"In my old of I tried to explain too brie<U+FB02>y, I am afraid my attitude towards the then prevailing situation in philosophy, and especially towards linguistic philosophy and the school of language analysts of those days."
"But apart from the replacement of perceptions by perception statements merely a translation into the formal mode of speech the doctrine that protocol sentences may be revised is his only advance upon the theory (due to Fries) of the immediacy of perceptual knowledge."
"However, I think it at least doubtful that the chance propositions can be said to specify combinations of occurrences as the S's were required to do."
"For our forms of expression prevent us in all sorts of ways from seeing that nothing out of the ordinary is involved, by sending us in pursuit of chimeras."
"I might say then this isn't an essential part of it."
"The most complete form of accuracy consists in giving correct answers to questions, an achievement in which calculating machines far surpass human beings."
"But you talk as if I weren't really expecting, hoping, now as I thought I was."
"At least those consequences should not be events."
"Neither Lewis nor Chisholm actually gives an analysis of statements with 'I'."
"Wherever there has been a semblance of a general criterion, to my knowledge, there has been either some drastic failure such as tended to admit all or no sentences as analytic, or there has been a circularity of the kind noted three paragraphs back, or there has been a dependence on terms like 'meaning,' 'possible,' 'conceivable,' and the like, which are at least as mysterious and in the same way) as what we want to define."
"why isn't it also open to doubt whether I am a human being who is informing the doctor of this?"
"If it had not occurred, it would not have occurred; but this is certainly not counterfactual dependence between distinct events, therefore it does not qualify as causal dependence on my account."
"Here is a Chinese sentence or"
"On the narrow construal, a factor must be the sort of localised occurrence event, state, omission, etc."
"I and my body have there a personal counterpart that is a person but not a body and also a bodily counterpart that is a body but not a person."
"But if psychology is to be independent of physiology, and if physiology can be reduced to physics, it would seem that mnemic causation is essential in psychology."
"However, he immediately goes on to assume that the theory must involve Perry's stronger conclusion that the self concept in question would have to characterize its subject uniquely in a neutral language, and objects: ven if Castor were sufficiently narcissistic to associate such self concep with his every use of 'I', his twin, Pollux, whose mental life is qualitatively identical with Castor's, would associate the same self concept with his every (matching) use of 'I'."
"The photon example is meant to bring this out, and any number of examples could be given in this vein."
"The subject simply sees a dog and judges that there is one."
"We can say, for example, that the number of planets might have been a different number from the number"
"For, where and are rigid designators, we are free to put them for 'x' and 'y' in and thus derive necessary identity."
"In that case we would not say that then this man would not have been Hitler, for we use the name 'Hitler' just as the name of that man, even in describing other possible worlds."
"In derivative knowledge our ultimate premisses must have some degree of self evidence, and so must their connexion with the conclusions deduced from them."
"But what better could a determinist expect?"
"Perhaps by ignoring indeterminism I squander the most striking advantage of a counterfactual analysis over a regularity analysis: that it allows undetermined events to be caused."
"Modifying phrases like in view of what is known or in view of what custom requires may be present to indicate just which possibilities should be ignored."
"In the former case it can be called a perception; in the latter it cannot be so called."
"Being unable when we surrender ourselves to philosophical thought to help saying such and such; being irresistibly inclined to say it does not mean being forced into an assumption, or having an immediate perception or knowledge of a state of affairs."
"Now consider the causal counterfactuals"
"The obtaining of this existential fact is not an event."
"If we want to express a dependency hypothesis in ordinary language, it is hard to avoid the use of counterfactual conditionals saying what would happen if the agent were to realise his various alternative options."
"It seems unlikely, in some cases at least."
"to be applicable one must be careful to elicit from one's informant properties that he regards as defining the name and determining the referent, not mere well known facts about the referent."
"This insensitiveness increases with increasing."
"We must assume, finally, that the postulate of will be false in case any of the terms is denotationless."
"Therefore, I do not know that it is going to be a surprise."
"The concentration on a special part of the scene is emphasized here more strongly still than in ''"
"On any such view, the specifications of the kinematics of score have a changed status."
"which means that the content of basic statements exceeds their logical probability (since it must exceed."
"Thus may be felt to have emerged when we take to predicating individuative terms, as in 'Fido is a dog.'"
"I would not give much credence to the proposition that the coin has a chance of heads of exactly."
"For these reasons, and for many others, the three model languages are too poor to be of use to any science."
"fallacy may be brought into sharper relief by taking as and restoring the hanging motif."
"There are statements which we choose to surrender last, if at all, in the course of revamping our sciences in the face of new discoveries; and among these there are some which we will not surrender at all, so basic are they to our whole conceptual scheme."
"A similar 'proof can be provided wherever there are two names in one language, and a normal practice of translating both indifferently into a single name of another language."
"We cannot find our feet with them."
"; and we can supplant 'x' here by any desired term thanks to the substitutivity of if we can establish (x."
"A sort of example people have in mind is just what I said: I shall use the term 'Cicero' to denote the man who denounced Catiline (or first denounced him in public, to make it unique)."
"A related claim, which I have sometimes heard made, is the following: whatever may be the case for ordinary language, scientific language should not admit such expressions as 'there is someone I believe to be a spy,' and presumably related ones such as 'the object has been identified,' 'we know which it Dennett's paper shows that he is quite serious in saying that psychology, once it is worked out, will eliminate many of these notions about belief and reference and dissolve the associated puzzles."
"That is what must imply in order to reduce by means of derived bridge laws."
"English translation, ."
"That problem is simply this: if we have a logically complex sentence whose clauses bear certain presuppositions, how do we compute the presuppositions of the whole?"
"(Thus following Millikan they give, for example, the elementary charge of the electron, measured in electrostatic units, as adding that the range of imprecision is .)"
"On the other hand a picture may obtrude itself upon us and be of no use at all."
"So Thesis seems to be false."
", I have not bothered to set these things straight."
"Also there are the binary operators, or connectives, of strict implication and strict equivalence."
"Similarly even for 'Fido' and 'Mama."
"Thus to falsify the statement 'All ravens are black' the inter subjectively testable statement that there is a family of white ravens in the zoo at New York would suffice."
"Perry does in fact concede that some philosophers 'have come to hold somewhat similar views about the self, beliefs about oneself, and 'I' without being motivated by any semantical problems."
"The case of the bomb with a randomizer also is comparatively insensitive: the bomb might very well have chanced not to go off, but it isn't the fine details of the circumstances that would make the difference."
"But if the description is used to fix a reference rigidly, then it's clear that that is not what is meant by 'Moses didn't exist', because we can ask, if we speak of a counterfactual case where no one did indeed do such and such, say, lead the Israelites out of Egypt, does it follow that, in such a situation, Moses wouldn't have existed?"
"If there is a subject, it can have a relation to the patch of colour, namely, the sort of relation which we might call awareness."
"Prejudice leads us to suppose that between the sensory stimulus and the utterance of the words a process of thought must have intervened, but there seems no good reason for such a supposition."
"In the contemporary discussion of intensional discourse"
"That 'real' is a convenient name for a union of attributes which sometimes occurs, it could not be worth any one's while to assert: no inferences of any importance could be drawn from such an assertion."
"What this means is that if the interpretation of T(x) is extended by giving it a definite truth value for cases that were previously undefined, no truth value previously established changes or becomes undefined; at most, certain previously undefined truth values become defined."
"And the range that the totality of elementary propositions leaves open for its construction is exactly the same as that which is delimited by entirely general propositions."
"Or do we not do so only because the other person already knows that?"
"Furthermore, douht is also the first step to take in developing a the ory of knowledge, if we adopt the line of Descartes."
"is that it not cHlcaciolls."
"This is the case and"
"Let us see what happens to our other referen tially opaque contexts."
"But these are not about behaviour."
"Philosophical theories are never refuted conclusively."
"All that is required is that we should construct a system of signs with a particular number of dimensions with a particular mathematical multiplicity."
"For instance, if assigns to Tonlay!'"
"First, if someone assents to 'Doctors are happy,' but refuses assent to 'Physicians are happy,' prima facie disquotation does not apply to him since he is under a linguistic or conceptual confusion."
"What has to be accepted, the given, is so one could say forms of life."
"is false at any possible world where I am infinitesimally more than feet tall, but true at the impossible closest A worlds to ours.)"
"thesi that pains and brain states are correlated, but rather that they are IdentIcal."
"This constitutes the definition of truth and falsehood that we were in search of."
"(Or not without resort to instantaneous or backward causation."
"I should do other people no injustice, so long as a notation were provided in which the loss of the word pain in other connexions were somehow supplied."
"David Lewis has enumerated a set of fallacies for counterfactual logic that are valid principles for other types of conditionals."
"Pain, on the other hand, is not picked out by one of its accidental properties; rather it is picked out by the property of being pain itself, by its immediate phenomenological quality."
"it is a form of water because it is the same substanc,::, even though it doesn't have the appearances by which we originally identified water."
"We considered that under moderate and reasonable standards of fragility, hence without any problematic double standard, we might say that the vigorous firing and the feeble firing would differ enough in manner to make them numerically different events."
"It seems to me perfectly clear that it is sometimes useful for a man to think his watch is right when it is wrong."
"Sraffa, and published by them in."
"section and quotations in notes and, and thus still more so probability hypotheses, which are neither verifiable nor falsifiable."
"We all think, intuitively, that when Nozick is in Emerson Hall, he knows that he is, and so we may think that knowing the conjunction amounts to knowing the same thing."
"The schematic letters a re thought of as supplanted by a specific statements so as to yield actual cases like and."
"that 'Moses exists' means that at all."
"We can face the question squarely as a question what to admit to the universe of values of our variables of quantification."
"According to my view, however, probability statements, just because they are completely undecidable, are metaphysical unless we decide to make them falsifiable by accepting a methodological rule."
"It seems to me almost as plain that it is not, as that the other was not."
"The question of essential properties so called is supposed to be equivalent (and it is equivalent) to the question of 'identity across possible worlds'."
"I mean the thing which caused my experience of this sensible; because events which happen between the half crown and my eyes, and events in my eyes, and optic nerves, and brains are just as much causes of my experiences as the half crown itself."
"The click on the tape is replaced by innocent noises."
"We have seen finally that if the assertion that all relations modify their terms is to be understood as equivalent to the assertion that all are internal, modify must be understood in some metaphorical sense."
"A thermometer which went down for warm weather and up for cold might be just as accurate as the usual kind; and a person who always believes falsely is just as sensitive an instrument as a person who always believes truly."
"If it is true, then the whole of a causal history could in principle be mapped by means of arguments (with addenda in the probabilistic case) of the explanatory sort."
"Since he is in this section relating the notion of the self to that of a pure Cartesian ego, completely independent of a body, the question of bodily identity is not discussed."
"But what would the meaning of the sounds be in such a case?"
"Surely prohibitions on naming are arbitrary here.)"
"And we may regard this occurrence as the class of the statements '"
"This view, however, demands the admission of the subject, or act, in the sense discussed in our first lecture."
"For, what I take as definitive of observation sentences is mt th pa of con ditions: first, the speaker must he disposed to assent to the sentence or dissent from it outright on making the appropriate obstTvation, rrespec tive of his interrupted line of thought if any, and second, the verdict must command the agreement of any witnesses from the appropriate lan guage community."
"But this initial segment of a series obviously admitted of various interpretations (e.g. by means of algebraic expressions)"
"Suppose that I were standing with someone in a city square and said that."
"Pbilosopbical Imestigatiom I. Edr."
"Only if he holds the view as a theory of meaning, rather than of reference, would it also be necessarily true that, if not enough of the rp' are satisfied, does not exist."
"Tautology and contradiction are the limiting cases indeed"
"ome further locut ns,. ."
"This looks like wood."
"It is the rule for translating this language into the language of gramophone records."
"When I make myself a sketch of N's face from memory, I can surely be said to mean him by my drawing."
"But the wave motions must really be in physical space, with which we have no direct acquaintance; thus the real wave motions have not that familiarity which we might have supposed them to have."
"(Confusingly, by the inverse variation of intension and extension, there is also a sense in which the first event is part of the second.)"
"Will any one of those who do exist afterward be me?"
"The Identity Theory of Quotation.'"
"saying exactly how things would be if."
"In the second half of my utterance, am I inviting you to suppose that I cannot be trusted?"
"Reliability and Relevant Alternatives.'"
"It is these two characteristics, both connected with mnemic phenomena, that distinguish perceptions from the appearances of objects in places where there is no living being."
"The value of philosophy is, in fact, to be sought largely in its very uncertainty."
"But what does a game look like that is everywhere bounded by rules?"
"A word may, through historical or other accidents, evoke a train of ideas bearing no relevance to the truth or falsehood of its context; in point of meaning, however, as distinct from connotation, a word may be said to be determined to whatever extent the truth or falsehood of its contexts is determined."
"It would be a situation in which there was some other woman who had many of the properties that are in fact true of Elizabeth."
"Second, this is so because we could have evidence qualitatively indistinguishable from the evidence we have and determine the reference of the two names by the positions of two planets in the sky, without the planets being the same."
"I shall return to this view later."
"But now he may want to communicate with others."
"the movement of the machine as symbol is predetermined in a different sense from that in which the movement of any given actual machine is predetermined."
"There may or may not be an open sentence that expresses the attribute that is the essence of something; to assert that the attribute expressed by is the essence of the thing denoted by is to assert (The actual world contains a unique a such that a and for anything in any world is a counterpart of a if and only if jfy)"
"Falling in thus uncritically with the usage of old fashioned epistemol ogy and ntrospective psychology, let us consider, to begin with, the pro cess of language."
"This is already suggested by the following: if it were not so, it would also be conceivable that we should be wrong in every statement about physical objects; that any we ever make are mistaken."
"The theoretician puts certain definite questions to the experimenter, and the latter, by his experiments, tries to elicit a decisive answer to these questions, and to no others."
"But I also feel that our intuitions of semantic rules as speakers should not be ignored cavalierly."
"But surely it isn't; it expresses the fact that Aristotle taught Alexander the Great, something we could discover to be false."
"We can know, for example, that the earth and moon and sun are in one straight line during an eclipse, though we cannot know what a physical straight line is in itself, as we know the look of a straight line in our visual space."
"Or is it something complex, perhaps consisting in our way of behaving in the presence of objects, or, alternatively, in the existence in us of things called ideas, having a certain relation to objects, though different from them, and only symbolically representative of them?"
"Thus his beliefs about the speaker give him an epistemic reason to respond trustingly in."
"I feel as if these words were like"
"For my own part I wish it to be clearly understood that I do not suppose that anything I shall say has the smallest tendency to prove that reality is not spiritual: I do not believe it possible to refute a single one of the many important propositions contained in the assertion that it is so."
"The functions that they appear to perform can always be performed by classes or series or other logical constructions, consisting of less dubious entities."
"If there is a complex unity 'Desdemona's love for Cassio', consisting of the object terms related by the object relation in the same order as they have in the belief, then this complex unity is called the fact corresponding to the belief."
"I myself am one of the originators of this proposal (in connection with modal logic, anyway), though I wasn't thinking of possible worlds in Lewis's sense, and now might modify it."
"Fortunately that is a project we needn't undertake."
"Another somewhat similar physical object is the Dalai Lama, an example that has been invigorated by a myth of successive reincarnation."
"For this reason, they have urged or compelled people not to read certain books, writings, and the like."
"Because the cat denotes first Bruce, then Albert, then Bruce again, what I say is to some extent confusing and hard to follow."
"First, the induction defining the minimal fixed point is carried out in a settheoretic meta language, not in the object language itself."
"(It is true as well that the host unwittingly kills the guest."
"It could relate to later articles by Gareth Evans and George Boolos, if it had been gone into."
"Theory is empiri cally under determined."
"this proves to be a superstition (not a mistake!)"
"Tensed identity to the rescue once more."
"You can make your definition correct by expressly restricting it to those games."
"The relevant sense is that rather in which it."
"One might (using the language of chemistry) call this picture a proposition radical."
"This rejoinder would need sustaining on perhaps three counts, as follows, corresponding to three real or fancied purposes of positing such objcts."
"then there is life on the Morning Star, is possibly less a."
"So far our principle applies only to speakers of English."
"The word arbitrary needs stressing, not because those decisions are wholly arbitrary, but because they are so much more so"
"If names are restricted to our own immediate sense data, perhaps it is the case"
"The point is not that we ourselves are casting a bout in vain for a mooring."
"(Actually, in what I will later call the 'active context' rather than the 'passive context.'"
"Given this, we can argue just as before that as long as 's belief that satisfies Nozick's first three conditions, so does 's belief"
"We are trying to get hold of the mental process of understanding which seems to be hidden behind those coarser and therefore more readily visible accompaniments."
"There is, in addition to them, a judgment:"
"So if you find yourself indulging, that is at least some evidence that you have the condition and are in for big trouble."
"What's it like for me to."
"But just as what consists of these primary elements is itself complex, so the names of the elements become descriptive language by being compounded together."
"Thus the better testable and better corroborable hypothesis can never obtain a higher probability, on the given evidence, than the less testable one."
"For this purpose we must define more carefully the kind of accuracy and the kind of response that may be expected where there is knowledge."
"If this is any kind of fact, it might be false."
"If we demand justification by reasoned argument, in the logical sense, then we are committed to the view that statements can be justified only by statements."
"Thus we may say that we think of an image"
"See (in this volume), in which I argue that such violations of extensionality as it commits are of no deep significance."
"Disagreement in ontology involves basic disagreement in conceptual schemes; yet McX and I, despite these basic disagreements, find that our conceptual schemes converge sufficientlv in their intermediate and upper ramifications to enable us to communicate successfu lly on such topics as politics, weather, and, in particular, lan guage."
"Moreover, not only does the formula of section and the verbal formulation of Bernoulli's theorem remain unchanged, but the interpretation we have given to it also remains unchanged"
"Fiction and Metaphysics'."
"we could truly say that what we are judging in these cases is: This presented object has one and only one cause, of this special kind."
"The only way to avoid conventionalism is by taking a decision: the decision not to apply its methods."
"And that is to express a wish that one's hand should move in such and such a way."
"It is the very core of our common sense theory of persons, dissected out and elegantly systematized."
"A hypothetical community that was explicitly taught Russellian or Frege Strawsonian truth conditions for sentences containing vacuous definite descriptions would have no difficulty producing direct intuitions that decide the Russell Strawson dispute."
"and whose premiss set, the explanans, consists of general laws. ."
"And it may perhaps, without being falsified, be superseded by a better testable theory from which it or a sufficiently close approximation to it can be deduced."
"To say that Time exists or that there is such a thing, is to assert at least, that there are some temporal facts: it may assert more than this, but it does assert this, at least."
"Take the case of puzzling Pierre."
"tranandlatIons of terms, from occurrence to occurrence, as to Sidestep contradIction. . ."
"The argument of Naming and Necessity is thus directed against the simple 'Principle of Charity' for that case."
"This rule means that basic statements will satisfy condition (a), since a singular existential statement can never be deduced from a strictly universal statement, ie from a strict non existence statement."
"Thus, in my own example, it is Philby, not the Eiffel Tower, that is the intended reference."
"If one event is a redundant cause of another, then is it a cause simpliciter?"
"He will glance round and jump aside without the need of any mental intermediary."
"An analogy to illustrate the concept of truth: imagine a black spot on white paper: you can describe the shape of the spot by saying, for each point on the sheet, whether it is black or white."
"That is just to say that there is a property that belongs to all and only the regions of this and other worlds where it occurs; and that is just to say that these regions comprise a class."
"In such cases as 'the latter', 'the former', 'the aforementioned person', and various pronominal cases such as 'him', where the reference is determined by the sentence itself, as opposed to demonstrative pronouns, the general rule determines the reference for each sentence or discourse, without the supplementation of anything else such as speaker, time, or whatever."
"The conditionals need not have anything to do with probability; for instance, my beard does not depend on my politics since I would have such a beard whether I were Republican, Democrat, Prohibitionist, Libertarian, Socialist Labor, or whatever."
"What is the criterion for the redness of an image?"
"I think we shall be inclined to say: we mean the sentence as/"
"'true' ('a statement' result of utring. ."
"When my strong recommendation causes lives and then deaths, that is comparatively sensitive causation"
"Isn't one misled simply by the grammatical peculiarity that Cp follows from ''"
"It also useful in making certain concepts clear."
"I do embrace physicalism as a scientific position, but I could be dis suaded of it on future scientific grounds without being dissuaded of naturalism."
"Other than that, the theories, though in my own opinion somewhat differently motivated, can be interpreted as the same."
"There are other candidates, but they teach us nothing new."
"Normally, I think, not unless the owner of the field (or other responsible person) had potential plans possibly to erect an imitation barn."
"occasion on which there is a unique indicated object, even if the indicated object is lukewarm."
"Now, Russell comments, 'This would be true, for example, if George had seen Scott at a distance, and had asked 'Is that Scott?''"
"Given satisfying )(, and given any proposition that holds at more than one world, it will be possible to distort very slightly to produce such that (-/Y) and (-/Y) differ but also satisfies."
"Given that counterfeit barns do abound in the area (and that he is making his judgment on the presupposition that they do not), should he be said to know even in the case where he hasn't been warned?"
"But they are all opinions, and a reasonable goal for a philosopher is to bring them into equilibrium."
"Does he nevertheless breathe fire in my story?"
"Suppose that someone said, pointing to Nixon, 'That's the guy who might have lost'."
"Let us give a crude illustration, too crude for the authors in question, but capable of affording a rough insight into their meaning."
"This is a radical alteration of Frege's earlier remarks on sense and reference."
"In Orenstein and Kotatko, pp. ."
"(I thank Michael Slote for this observation.)"
"I do not think, therefore, that the fact that, if this last view were true, we should have to admit that we know immediately facts of a kind which many people think we cannot know immediately, is a conclusive objection to it."
"(I take it that are problematic in various ways; so I rest my case mainly on.)"
"(Hence I regard causality as a naughty word, since it is ambiguous between causation and determinism."
"even if he knew more than he now knows.'"
"Their efforts may be cooperative, as when all participants in a discussion try to increase the amount that all of them willingly presuppose."
"Perception, Knowledge, and Belief:"
"is that Pierre believes that the city satisfying one set of properties is pretty, while he believes that the city satisfying another set of properties is not pretty."
"The question whether negation had the same meaning to these people as to us would be analogous to the question whether the figure meant the same to people whose numbers ended at as to us."
"Yet even if we the problem of the empirical basis disregard these special aspects of the older procedure and imagine a procedure based solely on the aim of promoting the discovery of objective truth, it would still be the case that the verdict of the jury never justifies, or gives grounds for, the truth of what it asserts."
"But there will be a probabilistic counterfactual as well: if there were that scene, there would be so and so chance of that matching experience, and maybe also some chance of various other experiences."
"Our only clue to their meaning is the postulate of that introduced them."
"What we believe, when we believe the law of contradiction, is not that the mind is so made that it must believe the law of contradiction."
"Such is one likely cause of a predilection for attributes a part from motives of systematic utility). '"
"have ex patiated on these troubles elsewhere as has White."
"(Morris, University of Minnesota Press, pp."
"Those linguists engaged in the projection problem no doubt recognize cases like these (and Russell's 'Ferdinand' case)."
"b) where too cannot carry anaphora, in this case from Nixon to Haldeman."
"interpret the terms, since they do not occur in it."
"Afterward, if the recipient understands and believes what he is told, he too will possess the information."
"Lengthening the modulus enriches stimulus meanings and tightens stimulus synonymy only as it diminishes scrutability of stimulus synonyms."
"It can be expected that the ambiguous name Ned will then fall into disuse, except when we wish to speak of the shared life of, and before the fission."
"(They belong to the same class as the question whether the good is more or less identical than the beautiful.)"
"Thus all judgements as to what is useful depend upon judgements as to what has value on its own account."
"The fact is obvious for a since, in T(x) is undefined for all,"
"But on the basis of his behavior as a French speaker, we must conclude that he does believe that London is pretty."
"Not, but something not far short of."
"If the photon goes to the left, she will have no idea whether a photon has been emitted or not."
"Then although a' is necessary, CiliT Some of the statements I myself make above may be loose and inaccurate in this sense."
"But that could not be correct: first, because the counterpart relation is not transitive or symmetric, as identity is; and second, because the counterpart relation depends on the relative importances we attach to various different respects of similarity and dissimilarity, as identity does not."
"If the Meinongian can handle them with no special dodges, that is an advantage of his approach over mine.)"
"As Tis corrected, modified, extended, or perhaps even when we accept miscellaneous hypotheses that contain terms but do not belong integrally to any version of, the terms gradually change their meaning."
"Note, in contrast, that existential generalization with respect to the purely referential occurrence in yields the sound conclusion: x)(x was called Giorgione' because of its size that 'Something a called Giorgione' because of its size."
"The axiom of randomness or, as it is sometimes called, 'the principle of the excluded gambling system', is designed to give mathematical expression to the chance like character of the sequence."
"Most analyses involving possible worlds go through equally well either way."
"yet philosophers should not be specialists."
"Neither is the case; this table is wooden, brown, in the room, etc."
"Although the class of permitted statements will thereby become smaller, this does not affect our argument; for we have seen that the theory does not assert anything about this class."
"If we speak of the geometrical form or shape of a curve, then what we demand is invariance with respect to all transformations belonging to the group of displacements, and we may demand invariance with respect to similarity transformations; for we do not think of a geometrical figure or shape as being tied to a definite position."
"In a footnote Nozick elaborates: If it is truly a random matter which slit a photon goes through, then its going through (say)"
"A map that is incomplete because the railways are left off is faulty indeed."
"After explaining the sudden shock of a flash of lightning or a steam whistle, Stout says that no mere image ever does strike the mind in this manner (p."
"believe to be incontestable."
"First, as argued, find it ill grounded."
"At the same time he shews the assistant a colour sample, and when he says there he points to a place on the building site."
"And now I ask him How did you mean that?"
"and I believe that (via M)' can be replaced by another clause if we like, one that gives causally sufficient conditions for the belief that to occur."
"One might even suppose that this is what Church really had in mind, even though it is not part of his official doctrine."
"And there is hardly any limit to the vagueness of which images are capable."
"These last two of the four causes operate far more widely, I suspect, than appears on the surface."
"Indeed, the desire for a unified account was a major reason that Nozick replaced Goldman's earlier causal analysis (Goldman with a counterfactual formulation (see page."
"Does this sentence make sense?"
"rusus nimis latent, et nova est inventio eorum."
"That can only be because they are not distinct."
"I can at first give no answer to the question why I imagine the city in this direction."
"Bjo¨rnsson phrased his objection in terms of tense, but it could just as well have been phrased in terms of persons, as indeed has been emphasized by Castan~eda (and others, see below)."
"We have seen that this is in general too strong, but I think Lewis is probably not really unaware of this."
"What reason have we for believing it?"
"I consider first a class of cases distinguished by doubt as to whether they exhibit redundant causation at all."
"For every hole there is a hole lining; for every hole lining there is a hole."
"I also don't know when philosophical journals and philosophical papers as such began."
"I can imagine such a use of words (of series of sounds)."
"Take, for example, the beliefs produced by reading."
"More elaborate treatments of Dennett's case and"
"According to such a view, the sense a given speaker attributes to such a name as 'Cicero' depends on which assertions beginning with 'Cicero' he accepts and which of these he regards as defining, for him, the name (as opposed to those he regards as mere factual beliefs 'about Cicero')."
"There are not, as we shall see."
"We do of course make use of records or protocols, such as certificates of tests issued by a department of scientific and industrial research."
"But this is not what we want."
"The corresponding case for definite descriptions is more delicate, but Graff Fara and Wilson are surely right in the indefinite description case."
"I am inclined to say even more: from Plato to Descartes, Leibniz, Kant, Duhem and Poincar and from Bacon, Hobbes, and Locke, to Hume, Mill, and Russell, the theory of knowledge was inspired by the hope that it would enable us not only to know more about knowledge, but also to contribute to the advance of knowledge of scientific knowledge, that is."
"The required covering laws would be available by implication from certain particular fact premises in the explanans."
"But this is, essentially, the only way we can involve ourselves in ontological commitments: by our use of bound variables."
"When I look at a star, my sensation is A member of the group of particulars which is the star, and which is associated with the place where the star is; A member of the group of particulars which is my biography, and which is associated with the place where I am."
"This distinction is only a convenient and dispensable way of marking an underlying difference that can be uncovered anyway in a distinction of functions, as lately outlined."
"But we also say I am expecting him when it is supposed to mean: I am eagerly awaiting him."
"It is first and foremost itself a proposition, an English sentence, for it has a subject and a predicate."
"If neither was the case we should not quite understand him."
"A Problem about Permission, in Esa Saarinen et al., eds., Essays in Honour ofjaakko Hmtikka (Dordrecht: Reidel,."
"However, the formulation would seem to be fair enough within its limits; so let us go ahead with it, not seeking more subtlety un til need arises."
"It is a fairly familiar rhetorical trope in academic writing, and so should be very familiar to us (that is, to academics)."
"It is therefore of course essential to distinguish clearly between a merely factually false (synthetic) statement and a logically false or inconsistent or self contradictory statement; that is to say, one from which a statement of the form"
"Not knowing this, A gives the sign."
"Presumably it consists of historical information about the interval between and the present."
"Or we might want to know about causes intermediate between those presented and the explanandum."
"There may be a specific feeling which could be called the feeling of pastness, especially where immediate memory is concerned."
"Commonly a stimulation will trigger our verdict on a statement only because the statement is a strand in the verbal network of some ela borate theory, other strands of which are more directly conditioned to that stimulation."
"The word iron names an associated sight and fec Johnson wrote."
"In the field of the empirical sciences, more particularly, he constructs hypotheses, or systems of theories, and tests them against experience by observation and experiment."
"(Or perhaps rather: it refers to something known only to him."
"And that would be the right answer, for he meant to speak neither of the stick nor of the brush in particular."
"First there is the logical comparison of the conclusions among themselves, by which the internal consistency of the system is tested."
"I am interpreting Strawson as holding that 'the present king of France is bald' fails to make a statement but is still meaningful, because it gives directions (conditions) for making a statement."
"The limit concept plays only a subordinate le: it is used for the purpose of applying some conception of relative frequency (which, in the first instance, is only defined for finite classes, and without which the concept of nfreedom cannot be formulated) to sequences that can be continued indefinitely."
"When, for example, I am given an algebraic function, I am that I shall be able to work out its values for the arguments,. ."
"The same point can be made in terms of the notion of what picks out the reference of a rigid designator."
"For the rich partition of value level propositions we have something resembling ): U(A) <U+2211>v )"
"A sim ple definition introduces some specific expression,.g."
"True, there are continuum many nonidentical continuant persons in the room."
"I mean the man Jones calls Godel."
"Special thanks go to Stephen Neale and Romina Padro´ for their invaluable help in the editing of this paper."
"These are always, I think, really habit memories, the memories that use images being the typical true memories."
", discussing the effect of repeated similar stimuli in producing and modifying our images, he says: We choose a case of mnemic excitement whose existence we can perceive for ourselves by introspection, and seek to ekphore the bodily picture of our nearest relation in his absence, and have thus a pure mnemic excitement before us."
"(More generally, we could perhaps say that the degree of I relatedness of two stages depends not on the absolute degree of personhood of the continuant, if any, that links them; but rather on the relative degree of personhood of that continuant compared to the greatest degree of personhood that the degree of person stage hood of the stages could permit."
"It is only hy such outright projection of prior linguistic ha bits that the linguist can find general terms in the native language at all, or, having fo und them, match them with his own; stimulus meanings never suffice to determine even what words are terms, if any, much less"
"If this gives any worries, replace the example with 'Berrigan'."
"Ernest is hunting where Ernest is a sportsman in Africa."
"That certainly has the same reference namely, the ordinary sense as the indirect sense, whatever entity this may be."
"I don't know where the mistake is supposed to come from."
"But being guided is surely a particular experience!"
"Now in doing these school exercises in probability, we were in fact introduced at a tender age to a set of(miniature) '"
"That in this case the finger is as it were paralysed until we feel a touch on it is shewn by experience; it could not have been seen a priori."
"It is that 'sake' and 'behalf' have their uses only in the cl iches 'for the sake of' and 'in behalf of' and"
"These opinions seem to me to afford the best grip we have on the concept of chance."
"For instance, two patches of colour may be exactly alike, in spite of the fact that each possesses a constituent which the other does not possess, provided only that their two constituents are exactly alike."
"Acta Philosophica Fennica . '"
"The initial mistake, however, will have effects of two kinds."
"This is obviously so if the observation sentence is to be acquired as a first step in language learning; but the association is equally direct and holo phrastic in its operation even if the sentence was acquired through syn thesis of its words, and gained its immediacy only through subsequent famili arization."
"implication, on pain of obliterating the distinction between what's true in the story and what isn't."
"But what kind of reason can be given for believing a proposition of this sort?"
"Really, Dennett in no way disagrees with Sosa, whose formulation (that he has a simple theory of de re belief)"
"The argument from A is valid, but A derives its credibility entirely from the illusion that because our world alone is actual, therefore our world is radically different from all other worlds special in a way that makes it a fitting place of greatest greatness."
"every arrangement and distribution is supposed to be able to occur once."
"and we must not, of course, equate an indifferent statement with one that is objectively false.)"
"of sense and reference' (Evans,. ."
"Psychological Review,."
"They arise in connection with the theory of games of chance, and with the probabilistic laws of physics."
"This is the logical situation."
"(See also my Open Society, chapter note to chapter note to chapter where Aristotle's theory of induction is brie<U+FB02>y described)."
"The type cognitive synonymy required there is such as to equate the synonymy of 'bachelor' and 'unmarried man' with the analyticity of not merely with the truth of."
"In a similar way Einstein speaks of the 'search for those highly universal laws. ."
"Why the somewhat impolite phrase 'is bald' in Russell's example?"
", there is associ ated a unique range of possible sensorv events such that the occurrence of any of them would add to the likelihood of truth of the statement, and that there is associated also another unique range of possible sensory events whose occurrence would detract from that likelih ood."
"The logician's 'some' has as its intension that function (j) from intensions and intensions to intensions"
"The relation, like the I relation, is reflexive."
"As a rule, he will have means for forming an opinion by examining witnesses, documents, etc.; that is to say, by appealing to other intersubjectively testable and reproducible facts."
"Similar remarks apply to."
"But by the time of the intermediate event, the reliable system was already out of action."
"For, by conj unction is translatable; and so is the conditional, if we take it in the material sense 'Not"
"Foremost among our modal headaches is Anselm's ontological argument."
"gether with a partial enumeration of the logical vocabulary of a particular anguage."
"At bottom I am still afraid, though I won't confess it to myself."
"Does it follow that whoever discovered the incompleteness of arithmetic is the referent of 'Godel'?"
"or I do not have a false visual impression of a tree.'."
"Stimulation a Stimu Mea ning"
"Strictly speaking, the formal theorems of these theories would still exist, even given the 'equalitarian' view, but their motivation (as, say, in Turing's analysis) would not."
"We can perhaps imagine my not being embodied at all and still being in pain, or, conversely, we could imagine my body existing and being in the very same state even if there were no pain."
"I command you to be late."
"the essentials of the theory of probability as a theory of alternatives, without sacrificing generality."
"The notion of macroscopic objcts, tables and sheep, differs from that of molecules and electrons mainly, from an epistemological of view, in point of degree of antiquity."
"Ziff's most detailed statement of his version of the uster of descriptions theory of the reference of names is in 'About God', reprinted in Philosopllical Turnings, Cornell University Press, Ithaca, and Oxford University Press, London, pp."
"What, therefore, Mr. Bradley ought to mean and (according to me) does mean by Time is unreal is, in fact, inconsistent with what he ought to mean by Time exists or by Time is."
"They then reduce the problem to an analogue of the liar paradox (which they call 'the Knower,'."
"This approach would have the advantage that we could handle the semantics of constituents in a See my in this volume."
"See, for example, Peacocke."
"I doubt that any linguistic test of aboutness will work without circular restrictions on the language used."
"This stipulation, which Nozick explicitly rejects, would render the fourth condition completely super<U+FB02>uous."
"If our world is deterministic there are no chances in it, save chances of zero and one."
"The spirit of my earlier views, then, suggests that a Millian line should be maintained as far as is feasible."
"Memory, which we are to consider to day, introduces us to knowledge in one of its forms."
"Yes; what was characteristic was that I said to myself"
"The storytellers pretend to pass on historical information to their audience; the audience pretends to learn from their words, and to respond accordingly."
"we can get some guidance from a maxim that is al ready serving the natural scientist, namely Occam's razor: where choice is otherwise undetermined, opt for economy."
"It is fairly easy to see that we arrive in this way at a procedure according to which we stop only at a kind of statement that is especially easy to test."
"They are best viewed not as adj uncts to one language but as correlations between two languages, the one a part of the other."
"Later I say that these differences are implausibly even more limited on the hypothesis that the complete theory of chance is the same for all worlds."
"We observe that we do have the perceptions, which the hypothesis leads us to expect we should have."
"And not just the microphysics of extraordinary goings on in particle accelerators!"
"If Geach is right, an appropriate sortal must be passed on also."
"Stalnaker, and following him Soames, tried to give a pragmatic explanation of the inheritance conditions that is sensitive to context."
"But a combination of words is being excluded from the language, withdrawn from circulation."
"What I confirm by the experiment is that the occurrence of the two events is independent of the circumstances of which I have no more detailed knowledge."
"Any stage at any time belongs to exactly one person determinable at that time, and to infinitely many nondeterminable persons."
"Suppose we asked someone In what sense are these words a description of what you are seeing?"
"established that I am not making a mistake about that."
"At least, it does in most cases."
"Baseball has no rule of accommodation to the effect that if a fourth ball is required to make correct the play that occurs, then that very fact suffices to change the score so that straightway there are four balls."
"Th is is where considerations of conservatism and implicity come in, and, at a more technical levcl, probability theory and statistics."
"It is important, both for the puzzle about Pierre and for the Fregean argument that 'Cicero' and 'Tully' differ in 'sense,' that they would still arise in such a world."
"so called 'empirical fact' is different."
"It is clear that our normal criteria for the attribution of belief lead, when applied to this question, to paradoxes and contradictions."
"No, one can 'divide through' by the thing in the box; it cancels out, whatever it is."
"That is something like change."
"And since there was no chance that would be false, there was some chance that all of, and would hold together, so some chance at of a contradiction."
"it means 'to say things to oneself'."
"Common sense says: we lose our fortune, are sorry and weep; we meet a bear, are frightened and run; we are insulted by a rival, are angry and strike."
"But these explanations must after all sometime come to an end."
"We can devise a more extreme, but also more artificial, case in which a supposed event is almost purely extrinsic in its essence."
"But I think it catches the essence of experimental testing, and therewith of empirical content."
"But some less fragile event might be only accidentally a strolling; it might be a strolling that could have been a striding."
"this may mean all sorts of things: I look at a plant that I take for a young beech and that someone else thinks is a black currant."
"Substituting into we have U(A) <U+2211>S C(A"
"But Donnellan also believes that Russell's theory applies, if at all, only to attributive uses (p., and that referential uses of definite descriptions are close to proper names, even to Russell's 'logically proper' names (see."
"It controls a battery of lights focused on a screen before my eyes in such a way that the scene before my eyes is made to match my predicted visual experience at the time."
": let a practical dependency hypothesis be a maximally specific proposition about how the things the agent cares about do and do not depend causally on his present actions; let a full dependency hypothesis be a maximally specific proposition about how all things whatever do and do not depend causally on the agent's present actions."
"the worlds that belong to both sets are apt to be special in ways having nothing to do with what is true in the fiction."
"whatever else goes into sophisticated statistical method."
"And in that there is no contradiction."
"These theorists, believing as they do that the supposed identity of a brain state with the corresponding mental state is to be analyzed on the paradigm of the contingent identity of Benjamin Franklin with the inventor of bifocals, realize that just as his contingent activity made Benjamin Franklin into the inventor of bifocals, so some contingent property of the brain state must make it into a pain."
"The stipulation is a description of those propositions."
"You talk about all sorts of languagegames, but have nowhere said what the essence of a language game, and hence of language, is: what is common to all these activities, and what makes them into language or parts of language."
"So it is apparent that intrasubj ective stimulus synonymy remains open to criticism, from intuitive preconceptions, for relating occasion sentences whose stimulus meanings coincide on account of collateral infor mation."
"my admiration for Pr cil)ia was still almost unbounded."
"Let comprise our body of biochemical knowledge at some later time; might imply that certain substances named by chemical formulas,."
"Philosophy, like all other studies, aims primarily at knowledge."
"But they can be shown to be false only if we succeed in formulating laws, and in deducing predictions from them which are corroborated."
"The other way collects together the appearances of different objects from a given place, the result being what we call a perspective."
"It is quite possible, I think, that there is no entity"
"of the offprint) says quite rightly: 'But perhaps it is altogether quite mistaken to correlate a wave with one single photon a kind of physical action (a reduction of wave packets) is exerted from the place where the re<U+FB02>ected half of the wave packet is found upon another place as distant as we choose where the other half of the packet just happens to be'; a description to which he adds: 'this physical action is one which spreads with super luminal velocity.'"
"Change is a fact and, further, this fact, as such, is not reconcilable with the Absolute."
"Some other chemists are coming, too."
"For it is possible to frame the rule in such a way that the dividing line between what is permitted and what is forbidden is determined, just as in the case of other laws, by the attainable precision of our measurements."
"that yellowness is a manifest property, just as much 'right out there' as hardness or spherical shape."
"Some relations are reflexive such as the relation 'no richer than'."
"The fact that a tautology is yielded by this particular way of connecting its constituents characterizes the logic of its constituents."
"though they do not carry us very far."
"What happens when we learn to feel the ending of a church mode as an ending?."
"Think of exclamations alone, with their completely different functions."
"The Aim of Science', of my Postscript"
"The statement operator 'nec' is, short, on a part with quotation."
"(Or a benign witch.)"
"But now we must ask: How does it come out that he has learnt it?."
"For water, ugar, and the like the category of bulk terms remains, a survival of the pre individuative phase, ill fitting the di chotomy into general and singular."
"For Russell, at this stage of his thought, a clause such as 'that England is a monarchy' genuinely names a proposition."
"I. Introduction Events are not much of a topic in their own right."
"Not just any theory will do."
"It cannot give the least reason for supposing that the existence of an A must have been preceded by that of a, which did not stand to A in the observed relation, but in some quite different one."
"Since the given method of revising probability functions is eligible, so is this derived method of revising worlds."
"For this latter point arises out of the demand that statements of a high level of universality should be chosen, and that a system consisting of many 'axioms' should, if possible, be deduced from (and thus explained by) one with fewer 'axioms', and with axioms of a higher level of universality."
"One asks oneself: how can the eye this dot be looking in a direction?"
"If you try to persuade any uneducated person that she cannot call up a visual picture of a friend sitting in a chair, but can only use words describing what such an occurrence would be like, she will conclude that you are mad."
"The convention is not the regularity of truthfulness and trust simpliciter."
"the divergences can sys tematically"
"But if a person who knew Bismarck made a judgement about him, the case is different."
"We could still hold that assertability goes in most cases by probability, though we could no longer restate this as a rule that speakers should try to tell the truth."
"Consider this example: This can be seen as relevant to a couple of considerations mentioned in the last section of Soames."
"Mathematics would be a trivial subject if everyone's knowledge were deductively closed."
"The one actual, fixed past is the one past that would remain actual under this same range of suppositions."
"Let me just say that the two pieces are equally perforated."
"The intuitive reasoning is something like this:"
"This is the sort of belief which, in the case of memory, we expressed in the words this occurred or which, in the case of a judgment of perception, makes us believe in qualities correlated with present sensations, as.g."
"For example, we can say that we have given a causal explanation of the breaking of a certain piece of thread if we have found that the thread has a tensile strength of lb."
"At this stage we may be persuaded (and rightly so, I think) that if Jim asked Jack for help today, there would have been no quarrel yesterday."
"If a is an with extension A at index, then the result of combining a with is a with extension f(A,i) at index."
"Bill has lied to his parents."
"We talk, we utter words, and only later get a picture of their life."
"As long as his faith in his son would have beendominant, he need not be aware of this hypothetical situation in order for one to deny him knowledge on the basis of his seeing his son cleared in court."
"I, V(, heen srartled to find my lI<U+FFFD>e of 'mttl ltlvc' misconstrued a. a lld to some <U+FFFD>peClal and mysterious avenue of knowledge."
"If on the other hand they ascribe 'truth' to it then they are left with the choice between infinite regress and a priorism. '"
"some of which propositions."
"In its earlier stages, this condition is hard to detect."
"Inessential trappings aside, Prisoner's Dilemma is a version of Newcomb's Problem, quod erat demonstrandum."
"it is that occupies that causal role."
"Our judgement analyses the datum into colour and shape, and then recombines them by stating that the red colour is round in shape."
"Two such translations might even be patently contrary in truth value, provided there is no stimulation that would encourage assent to either."
"I fear that in most cases, the treatment of disputed points allowable in the space of a preface is simply too short to convince many readers who were inclined to believe the objections."
"It remains a project to characterize syntactically when we have inclusions and when converse inclusions."
"The native may dissent from 'Gavagai' in plain sight of the rabbit's cars, because the rabbit is in no position for shooting; he has misj udged the linguist's motive for asking Gavaga. ."
"the form Are there so"
"Do they operate widely enough to account in full for the crucial role that simplicity plays in scientific method."
"Indeed, if he did draw what would appear to be the normal conclusion in this case and any of the other cases, Pierre would in fact be guilty of a logical fallacy."
"It is more obvious if he is innocent.)"
"Notice that the third condition will hold for and no matter how irrational the method that uses to arrive at the belief that may be, and no matter how much 's belief that via may violate Nozick's third condition."
"so actions from the truth conditions of sentences that contain them."
"The situation is quite analogous to that of Jones with respect to 'Cicero' and 'Tully.'"
"(Even the proposition, 'Ambulo', is composite: for its stem with a different ending yields a different sense, and so does its ending with a different stem.)"
"Second, in the case, believed closer to the present paradigm, of theoretical identifications, such as light and a stream of photons, or water and a certain compound of hydrogen and oxygen."
"No powerful chaperone stands by to defend the past from interference."
"I might perhaps have said: simply by feel which only means that I left it to what should suggest itself."
"As a consequence, our criterion of falsifiability must turn out to be useless as a criterion of demarcation."
"(An alternative trick that usually works is to reverse the order of the two procedures."
"Most of the propositions and questions of philosophers arise from our failure to understand the logic of our language."
"Pressed nowadays for such a."
"I can set to work now to remember things I never remembered before, such as what I had to eat for breakfast this morning, and it can hardly be wholly habit that enables me to do this."
"They can only be the nonphysical epiphenomena or correlates of physical states which are experiences."
"Reprinted in this volume, ch."
"But it is unclear to me whether even 'Hesperus' and 'Phosphorus' do have such conventional 'modes of presentation.'"
"In the original, it is."
"But in a few moments we see it again and are able to touch it and so on."
"When we have discovered this, we've discovered an identification which gives us an essential property of this phenomenon."
"It is our overwhelmingly ingenious apparatus for systematizing, predicting, and partially controlling our in take, and we may take pride."
"If all discourse is mere response to surface irritation, th by what evidence may one man's proj ection of a world be said to be sounder than another's"
"That is not to say, of course, that all worlds are actual."
"and 'What beliefs are false?'"
"Theoretical terms need not name theoretical entities: consider 'H O'."
"I have it from someone who certainly knows all about it."
"We may regard them as separate existing items in those who experience them, or we may regard them as intrinsic qualities of sensations and other mental occurrences, or we may regard them as mere names for the causal characteristics of the occurrences which are uncomfortable or pleasant."
"This limitation will prove of little moment to persons who share my skepti cism about analyticity."
"And this picture seems to determine what we have to do, what to look for, and"
"This is an especially unusual paradigm of what the identity relationship should be because it would apply very rarely."
"The proof of formula may be carried out in two steps."
"It will be convenient if I may be allowed to call this second term"
"The relation here and in is what I call a converse inclusion or superset."
"Now consider the weaker disjunction (q) that either there is a tree in front of, or is not having a visual impression of a tree."
"In the article on The Monistic Theory of Truth in Philosophical Essays"
"is Bizet and Verdi are French"
"If the study of philosophy has any value at all for others than students of philosophy, it must be only indirectly, through its effects upon the lives of those who study it."
"But as soon as we have words for relations, word propositions have necessarily more terms than the facts to which they refer, and cannot therefore correspond so simply with their objectives as some image propositions can."
"Or again, if, when I observed preceding both and existed, but the existence of did not really precede that of, but, on the contrary, followed it, this observation could certainly give me no reason to suppose that, in general, the existence of A was preceded by the existence of."
"Why do you put it so oddly?"
"Language sometimes conceals the complexity of a belief."
"At the outset we know nothing about Karl's beliefs, desires, and meanings."
"For instance, they would never dream of agreeing with those ignorant tribes who disbelieve that pregnancies are caused by events of sexual intercourse."
"If Bizet and Verdi had been compatriots they would have been Ukranian."
"Here this is a vague term, covering the memory image and anything very like it, including its prototype."
"In 'The Causal Theory of Perception.'"
"And haven't you explained your own conception in turn by means of words?"
"Unaware that the Lord High Auditor and the Paymaster General are the same man, Go To ascribes rectitude to this man under the description Lord High Auditor but not under the description Paymaster General."
"Symbolic expressions are used autonymously."
"Such, then, is an observation sentence: it is a occasion sentence whose occasion is not only intersubj ectivcly observable hut"
"All that most people would mean by saying that time is real could, it would seem, be expressed by saying There is such a thing as Time."
"If we know the logical syntax of any sign language, then we have already been given all the propositions of logic."
"But sometimes causation is comparatively insensitive to small differences in the circumstances."
"One, determining an infinite class."
"Semon's two books, mentioned in an earlier lecture, do not touch knowledge memory at all closely."
"Almost everyone, then, does believe that some perceptions other than his own, and which he himself does not directly perceive, are real; and believing this, he believes that something other than himself and what he directly perceives is real."
"Now where a discrepancy in stimulus meanings will ensue is where a stimulation is such as woul stun one speaker and not another; fo it could belong say to the negative stimulus meaning of Gavagai' or 'Rabbit' for the latter speaker and to neither the a ffirmative nor the negative stimulus meaning for the former speaker."
"It thereby yields a decision as to which continuants are interrelated; a decision as to which continuants are included in larger interrelated aggregates; a decision as to which continuants are persons, given that persons are maximal interrelated aggregates; and thence a decision as to which stages are I related."
"And what does the characteristic thing about the experience of reading consist in?"
"(So the expression need not carry with it any suggestion of uncertainty."
"This being so, to deny that yellow can ever be apart from the sensation of yellow is merely to deny that yellow can ever be other than it is; since yellow and the sensation of yellow are absolutely identical."
"But if the introduction of a new device has proved necessary at a certain point, we must immediately ask ourselves, 'At what points is the employment of this device now unavoidable?'"
"Is what we call obeying a rule something that it would be possible for only one man to do, and to do only once in his life?"
"He tried to identify the particle immediately with the wave packet itself."
"As if they, so to speak, connected with something in us."
"My criterion of demarcation thus seems to agree here quite well with the general use of the word 'metaphysical'."
"When philosophers use a word knowledge being object I proposition name and try to grasp the essence of the thing, one must always ask oneself: is the word ever actually used in this way in the language game which is its original home?"
"Here the modalities are as before; is an object language variable over propositions; and is a higher order predicate satisfied at a world by a proposition iff"
"But I can think of only one type of view as to the constitution of material things, which is such that it is tolerably clear what answer those who hold it would give to the simple question; What is it that I am judging, when I judge, as I now do, that that is an inkstand?"
"in the subject does not refer to any entity."
"Changes in these definitions are permissible if useful; but they must be regarded as modifications of the system, which thereafter has to be re examined as if it were new."
"We require, next, some short and clear method of expressing the proposition, with regard to two properties and, that any proposition which asserts of a given thing that it has the property entails the proposition that the thing in question also has the property."
"but rather a rooming house."
"But to us such different responses are impossible: we can merely apply the word negro indiscriminately."
"I say of someone else"
"A truth operation is the way in which a truthfunction is produced out of elementary propositions."
"For we can utter no scientific statement that does not go far beyond what can be known with certainty 'on the basis of immediate experience'."
"A definition by causes and effects in typical cases suffices to determine what the experience is, and the fact that the experience has some characteristics or other besides its definitive causal role confers a sense upon ascriptions of it in some exceptional cases for which its definitive typical causes and effects are absent (and likewise upon denials of it in some cases for which they are present)."
"I includes some relevant information that the incomplete history"
"By bringing together scattered seme events and treating them as perceptions of one objct, we reduce the complexity of our stream of ex perience to a manageab conceptual simplicity."
"because we refuse to count what is tangible about our state as part of the specific state which we are postulating?."
"Taking the probability P(A C) of truth, and subtracting the diminution of assertability as measured by, we obtain a suitable measure of resultant assertability:"
"What the names in language signify must be indestructible; for it must be possible to describe the state of affairs in which everything destructible is destroyed."
"saying Perhaps we are wrong when, if no evidence is trustworthy, trust is excluded in the case of the present evidence."
"Therefore this could only be the case because the term 'horse', means in English 'the things called horses."
"We have already seen in the opening paragraph of this section what tangles, problems, and even contradictions would arise for Nozick's theory if adding a disjunct really did preserve his conditions."
"At length some of Kant's own clearest purported in stances, drawn fro arithmetic, were sweepingly disqualified (or so it seemed; but see by Frege's reduction of arithmetic to logic."
"So I have thought it better to return to unconditional credences and say what sort of partition is right."
"And I propose, therefore, to examine this assumption."
"Language as a socially inculcated set of dispositions is substantially uniform over the community, but it is uniform in different ways for different sen tences."
"As I said, I may well not remember from whom I heard of Godel, and I may think I remember from which people I heard the name, but wrongly."
"But is this really a 'defense' of Nozick?"
"Such is the ordi nary usage of the word 'real,' a separation of the sheep from the uni corns."
"Vc rh:d I''I pos vation sentences, and hence nothing less .l"
"Speaking outside the play, we say that Hamlet is a fictional character and not a real person; Gonzago, on the other hand, is not a fictional character."
"(Even the subtlest experts may not be able to avoid utterances leading to paradox."
"Point to a piece of paper."
"Synonymy of names does not mean merely nam<U+FFFD>"
"Images, as contrasted with sensations, are the response expected during a narrative; it is understood that present action is not called for."
"Well, the fleas and lice roved addictive."
"Let be 's true belief that the experiential feature in question is present."
"Now it is far from obvious, from a logical point of view, that we are justified in inferring universal statements from singular ones, no matter how numerous; for any conclusion drawn in this way may always turn out to be false: no matter how many instances of white swans we may have observed, this does not justify the conclusion that all swans are white."
"For instance, an event consisting of a stone's flying faster than light would falsify a law."
"The stronger theory may have fewer actual realizations or it may not; but it must have less risk of multiple realization, and that is enought to explain why strength seems to make for better interpretation."
"Such a rule is not subject to the criticism containing the un understood word 'analytic'; and we may grant for the sake of argument that there is no difficulty over the broader term 'true.'"
"Here one would surely say You don't know?"
"The distinction between accuracy and precision is however, not fundamental."
"This has been quite a spray, or spree, of philosophical miscellany."
"For a given choice of to interpret T(x), set."
"The positivist dislikes the idea that there should be meaningful problems outside the field of 'positive' empirical science problems to be dealt with by a genuine philosophical theory."
"My requirement that there be a wide range of good scenes may be satisfied only in virtue of some distant continent."
"the relation, namely, which, in the case of and can be expressed by saying that It is not the case"
"There is another point of great importance, in which the empiricists were in the right as against the rationalists."
"I might do better to argue that the ontology ascribed by is bad"
"Lewis section 'Counterfactual Fallacies'."
"It seems to me quite obvious that if you assert of a given state of things that it contains a balance of pleasure over pain, you are asserting of it not only a different predicate, from what you would be asserting of it if you said it was good but a predicate which is of quite a different kind and in the same way that when you assert of a patch of colour that it is yellow, the predicate you assert is not only different from beautiful, but of quite a different kind, in the same way as before."
"The edge of the system must be kept squared with experience; the rest, with all its ela borate myths or fictions, has as itsjective the simplicity of laws."
"(The assertion of the negative proposition contains the proposition which is negated, but not the assertion of it."
"So far, there is nothing particularly repugnant to our prejudices in the conclusions of the behaviourists."
"We find that there is a common sense of the word existence, in which to say A exists must mean less than A is really perceived since, otherwise, the only possible definition of the word existence would be a circular definition."
"but rather a description of the individual branches."
"Given any such scheme, we can use the previous arguments to construct the minimal fixed point and other fixed points, define the levels of sentences and the notions of 'grounded', 'paradoxical', etc."
"Another issue concerns the rules for when this type of anaphora is allowed."
"I proceed, then with my explanation."
"I now turn to the other variety of redundant causation: overdetermination, with nothing to break the symmetry between the redundant causes."
"For the actual scene with the hallucinogenic wizard does cause matching experience; and we do have a wide range of alternative scenes namely, ordinary scenes without the wizard that would cause matching experience in a normal way."
"But for a large number of names, especially names of people, this is not so: the person's name is used in the sentences of all languages."
"And in any event there will be single sentences at the other extreme long theoreti cal ones that surely have their separable empirical meaning, for we can make a conj unctive sentence of a whole theory."
"There is a certain theory, perhaps popular in some views of the philosophy of history, which might both be deterministic and yet at the same time assign a great role to the individual in history."
"So if you say you have calculated in imagination, then you will have done so."
"closed off language defines truth for the fixed point before it was closed off."
"so called scientific language itself would contain neither indexicals nor tense, but be generally stated as applicable to arbitrary speakers, places, times, and the like; if modality is involved, to arbitrary possible worlds as well."
"This is not a legitimate assumption for sentences in general: There is no such substance as phlogiston is true just because 'phlogiston' is denotationless."
"If one proposition follows from another, then the latter says more than the former, and the former less than the latter."
"By substituting for in premise, we find that the student knows that the exam has not been given on one of the first days on the (N )th day."
"Second, I've argued, even if in some special cases, notably some cases of initial baptism, a referent is determined by a description, by some uniquely identifying property, what that property is doing in many cases of designation is not giving a synonym, giving something for which the name is an abbreviation; it is, rather, fixing a reference."
"Very well: it is a function that assigns to each member of the set of nodes of the tree an object said to occupy or be at that node."
"This property(ies) constitutes the 'sense' of the name."
"Disregarding predictive processes other than simulation, if such there be, we have this special case of <U+2033>): I will get my million if and only if my replica does not take his thousand."
"The question is: Can it be proved in this sense?"
"Although my framework did not require it, in several examples I went out of my way to transform surface infinitives into underlying sentential clauses."
"Still a concept of syn onymy initially significant only for short sentences can be extended to long sentences by analogy, eg as follows."
"For example, the law of contradiction states that nothing can both have a certain property and not have it."
"Kasparov is the champion."
"one recent exposition of such a view."
"James, as we saw, uses it to cover the whole primal stuff of the world, but this usage seems objection able, since, in a purely physical world, things would happen without there being any experience."
"Whence comes the idea that the beginning of a series is a visible section of rails invisibly laid to infinity?"
"The only way to avoid this awkwardness is to add to our definition the proviso that the beliefs involved in consciousness must be."
"I look at this inkstand, and then I look again, and on the second occasion I judge This part of the surface of this inkstand is the same as, or at least contains a part which is the same as a part of, the part of its surface which I was seeing just now."
"Perhaps it has not so far been possible to formulate suitable laws; perhaps all attempts to find a law have failed, and all predictions have been falsified."
"This is none too easy a thing to do."
"Philosophers who take this austere line will perhaps resort to actual nguistic forms, sentences, instead of propositions, as objcts of the propositional attitudes; and to actual linguistic forms, predicates, instead of attributes, as objcts of the attributary attitudes."
"I do not wish to decide between these alternatives."
"But unfortunately it was soon adopted by others, and used to convey precisely the kind of meaning which I wished to avoid."
"For although probability statements play such a vitally important le in empirical science, they turn out to be in principle impervious to strict falsification."
"So we have this special case of '):"
"This does not prevent our category names from being names of categories: they name themselves."
"First we exclude 'normal' or 'pure' neighbourhood selections, ie those in which we select according to some constant characteristic of the neighbourhood."
"Perhaps something like drawing a chalk line round an area?"
"Unknown to me, the sample was from my own blood, and abracadabrene is a powerful hallucinogen that makes white things look purple."
"My aim is: to teach you to pass from a piece of disguised nonsense to something that is patent nonsense."
"of my Third Note reprinted in appendix probability begin with the segment of the first elements of."
"This is not a very high standard of reliability."
"vanation is recognized hy Hintlkka, Knowledge ('lte!<U+FFFD>."
"If someone wanted to arouse doubts in me and spoke like this: here your memory is deceiving you, there you've been taken in, there again you have not been thorough enough in satisfying yourself, etc., and if I did not allow myself to be shaken but kept to my certainty then"
"The real Frege holds that the senses of statements containing demonstratives and indexicals are incomplete."
"What reason has any of us for supposing that any such proposition is true?"
"My greatest debt is to Paul Bernays who, shortly after this book had appeared in English, checked through my axiomatization of the probability calculus, especially the new appendix"
"Now, even for alternation and negation as primitive, or dually for conjunction and negation, the problem still exists."
"Some parts will be salient in some contexts, others in others."
"Given the full structure of causal dependence, all other causal relations are given."
"So I am inclined to distinguish between the essential and the inessential in a game too."
"And this means that we ought to search for laws and predictions."
"This school of psychologists tends not to emphasize the object."
"probability segments possessing the property '<U+2206>p' within the an sequences"
"These two words betoken a difference between language games."
"which means that they may always be superseded, and that they may possibly be deduced from probability estimates."
"It is easy to have a false picture of the processes called recognizing as if recognizing always consisted in comparing two impressions with one another."
"The question is: what does imponderable evidence accomplish'?"
"Can one keep hold of an understanding of meaning as one can keep hold of a mental image?"
"If you want to say that this shews them to be incomplete, ask yourself whether our language is complete; whether it was so before the symbolism of chemistry and the notation of the infinitesimal calculus were incorporated in it; for these are, so to speak, suburbs of our language."
"I want a sloop' in their notional senses may be rendered rather thus"
"Agnosticism and Idealism alike have, for all that has hitherto been urged in their favour, no more foundation than the supposition that a chimera lives in the moon."
"The cat is going to pounce on you!"
"The coincidence may be strange, but it is not impossible that things like these could have happened but had no connection with the work."
"We have thus, in addition to our four previous ways in which words can mean, two new ways, namely the way of memory and the way of imagination."
"Surely few would care to explain the low assertability of what I said by rejecting the usual truth functional semantics for negation and conjunction, and positing instead a special probabilistic rule of assertability."
"The material after the colon expresses the content of Jones's belief."
"We all learn the same multiplication table."
"Similarly, it seems clear that condition is satisfied."
"Thus: there is a hole, and there is another hole that is not the same hole, and every hole in the cheese is the same hole as one or the other."
"The citizen, who is also the Metropolis Pyromaniac, is suspected, but it may be rhetorically misleading to say so."
"It is of the essence of truth operations that, just as elementary propositions yield a truth function of themselves, so too in the same way truth functions yield a further truth function."
"That is to say, if we wish to prove that something of which we have no direct experience exists, we must have among our premisses the existence of one or more things of which we have direct experience."
"Was what I was doing then really thinking;"
"But we have to consider, not what led them to desire the view, but whether their arguments for it are valid."
"But if he persists, the friend of qualia can succeed in escaping our unwelcome agreement; and when he does, we must reverse our strategy."
"We have, therefore, rejected as certainly not giving the whole meaning of the dogma that all relations are internal: the obviously true proposition that no relational facts are completely analysable, in the precise sense which I gave to that assertion; and the obviously false proposition that all relations modify their terms, in the natural sense of the term modify, in which it always has as part of its meaning cause to undergo a change."
"If the function of naming were simply reference, then empty names would seem to have no semantic function at all, but plainly they do not fail to have a semantic function, as anyone who enjoys a good work of fiction can attest."
", some just say that it's the kind of unacceptability that results when a required presupposition is lacking, and some say it might vary from case to case."
"Whether done should or should not be called esse is not worth a dispute: what is worth dispute is whether percipi is necessarily connected with We"
"The trait is salient enough so that the linguist generalizes on it from samples: he expects the next glimpse of a rabbit to prompt assent to 'Gavagai' as past ones have."
"Carnap a Logical Truth docs not of itself"
"Pierre learns from them everything they know about London, but there is little overlap with what he heard before."
"And it would then make sense to talk of a method of projection according to which the image of the sign was a representation of the sign itself."
"Though it does look this way in Quine's account, this is not Russell's view."
"It is discussed at length by Forrest in The Sceptical Implications of Realism about Possible Worlds, presented at the August conference of the Australasian Association of Philosophy."
"We have an alternative."
"There are many of your opinions I applaud; but one of your less pleasing characteristics is your fondness for the doctrines of nominalism and materialism."
"technical meaning that Frege gave to the doctrine that existence is not a predicate."
"We may either eliminate this denoting phrase from the subordinate proposition 'so and so,' or from the whole proposition in which 'so and so' is a mere constituent."
"It is not only a useful instrument."
"And he concludes, for this and other reasons, that no argument can assure us that, because they have been constantly conjoined in the past, therefore they really are causally connected."
"Let us denote the class of all elements which do not belong to by 'ß' (read: 'the complement of ß' or simply: 'non ß')."
"(Even in such cases, as we just said, in practice it often causes no confusion to replace and by and."
"It is usual to call an inference 'inductive' if it passes from singular statements (sometimes also called 'particular' statements), such as accounts of the results of observations or experiments, to universal statements, such as hypotheses or theories."
"And he shews that he is deriving his script from the printed words by consulting the table."
"Contradiction is that common factor of propositions which no proposition has in common with another."
"Where someone disagrees with us as to the truth of a sentence, it often happens that we can convince him by getting the sentence from other sentences, which he does accept, by a series of steps each of which he ac cepts."
"Not that past moments are special; no more can anyone change the present or the future."
"Then in some cases empirical evidence establishes that the sentence '(x)(P(x) Q(x))' or '(<U+2203>x)(P(x) Q(x))', or the like itself satisfies the predicate P(x)"
"Usually below the simple disquotational principle will be sufficient for our purposes, but once we will also invoke the strengthened form."
"Altogether there are twenty seven dependency hypotheses expressible in this way, though some of them get very little credence."
"Or does standing for a red square consist in this, that when the people whose language it is use the sign a red square always comes before their minds?"
"The dentist does not observe your ache, but he can see the cavity which causes it, and could guess that you are suffering even if you did not tell him."
"Ordinarily we do not remember the trapezoidal sensory surface of a desk, as a color patch extending across the lower half of the visual field; what we remember is that there was a desk meeting such and such approximate specifications of form and size in three dimensional space."
"In an habitual memory, the event remembered was clearly an essential part of the stimulus to the formation of the habit."
"But the importance of the requirement of consistency will be appreciated if one realizes that a self contradictory system is uninformative."
"A synonym of a logically true sentence is itself a logical truth, since it represents the same logically true meaning as the original."
"What I have said requires for its acceptability that the cat denote Bruce, and hence that Bruce be once again more salient than Albert."
"It asserts, among other things, that an element with a given atomic structure (atomic number always has this melting point, whatever name we may give to this element."
"But I shall not; I shall carry on as if historical information is admissible without exception."
"Reichenbach's position is similar; it is criticized in my Postscript, section."
"Don't you understand the call Slab!"
"Thinking, he maintains, does not need language or sensuous presentations."
"The point of reference may simply go from one place to another, as is required by the following text: When the beggars came to town, the rich folk went to the shore."
"Rather, the scene before the eyes causes matching visual experience by peculiar, non standard causal processes."
"But even granting that this is so, I do not see that he would say that such an entity would not be Descartes nothing I am aware of supports such a dramatic and paradoxical conclusion."
"Is it not the case that men do sometimes dwell on their faults and blemishes, when it is not useful for them to do so?"
"and we assert only this: we cannot mean to assert that it has to the sensation of blue any relation which it does not have to the blue flower."
"As I say in Naming and Necessity, 'a possible world is given by the descriptive conditions we associate with it emphasis in original)."
"Animal drives are still at work behind the torrent of human speech, but they are seldom clearly to be traced."
"To each of these sentences a special tone of voice is appropriate, and a different context."
"They do not belong among the words; yet when I say to someone: Pronounce the word 'the' you will count the second"
"The bandersnatch' stands for a genuine fictional species or kind of beast, but we are inclined to say 'there are no bandersnatches', meaning in this instance to deny the existence of the kind (even though no one can say what a bandersnatch would have been)."
"(See David Wiggins, 'On Being at the Same Place at the Same Time', Philosophical Review, Vol., pp.)"
"These questions prove to be nterrelated; their in terrelations come out"
"And this argument must plainly apply to all the feelings, thoughts and perceptions of other men just as much as to material objects."
"Might I not for all that have a purely visual concept of a hesitant posture, or of a timid face?"
"And in asking this question I am not begging the question by supposing that all men do exist."
"Certainly the doctrine has no intrinsic appeal; and it has led its devotees to such quixotic extremes as that of challenging the method of proof by reductio ad absurdum a challenge in which I sense a reduc tio ad absurdum of the doctrine itself."
"A fourth class of candidates is typified by."
"(This is obvious, because if all men are mortal, so is Socrates; but if Socrates is mortal, it does not follow that all men are mortal.)"
"This paper was originally prepared in and was revised in."
"Possibly the use of a triangular mesh would have made the description simpler"
"For, so far as I can see, some non sensory experiences may be exactly similar to sensory ones in all intrinsic respects, except that what is experienced in them is different in kind from what is experienced in any sensory experience: the relation meant by saying that in them something is experienced may be exactly the same in kind,"
"It is impossible, however, to assert by means of propositions that such internal properties and relations obtain: rather, this makes itself manifest in the propositions that represent the relevant states of affairs and are concerned with the relevant objects."
"Let us, in the case of any proposition, express the contradictory of that proposition by."
"I borrow an example from Downing."
"Suppose that our world is an A world with an unfulfilled non zero chance of."
"We assume that some or other mental representations are present that play the role of a Scoreboard, in the following sense: what they register depends on the history of the conversation in the way that score should according to the rules."
"Note here a second advantage, apart from fineness of individuation, of taking meanings as semantically interpreted phrase markers rather than as single intensions: we can recover the meanings of constituents from the meanings of their compounds."
"The sentence replacing 'p' is to lack indexical or pronominal devices or ambiguities, that would ruin the intuitive sense of the principle (e.g., if he assents to '"
"And before this we find, 'What is immediately experienced is subjective and absolute. ."
"Russell says, 'The puzzle about George 's curiosity is now seen to have a very simple solution' (Russell. ."
"But such a form of words is, as has often been pointed out, ambiguous."
"No doubt Jones can believe that the number of planets is even, without believing that the square of three is even, if he is under a misapprehension about the astronomical, but not the arithmetical facts."
"It would certainly be absurd to suppose that there are innate principles in the sense that babies are born with a knowledge of everything which men know and which cannot be deduced from what is experienced."
"Before we can discuss the answer to this question, we must first be clear as to what our question means."
"And of course there is nothing wrong in our doing so."
"If there are closest A worlds to ours, pick one of them: how tall am I there?"
"Now the very distinction between a priori and empirical hegins to waver and dissolve, at least as a distinction hetween sentences."
"we can adhere uniformly to this narrow sense of belief, both for the dyadic case and for triadic and higher; in each case the term which names the ntension (whether proposition or attribute or intension of higher degree) is to be looked on as referentially opaque."
"And if anyone can do so why should that not merely prove that such imagemongery is of no interest to us?."
"But the impression that there are really two kinds of belief (where and persists, and their unification is an artificiality."
"In this statement there is no formal defect, but it leaves the definition of intuitive knowledge still to seek."
"Having thus attempted to point out some conditions which seem to be necessary, though not sufficient where observation is to give any reason for a generalisation, I may now proceed to my second preliminary question."
"The picture of the cube did indeed suggest a certain use to us, but it was possible for me to use it differently."
"It will be clear that the particular principles stated in the present section are sufficient, but in the next section the problem will be presented informally in terms of our inferences from foreign ordomestic assertion to belief."
"It may be a sigh; but it need not."
"Not because I remember such an experience, but because when I reflect on what I experience in such a case I look at it through the medium of the concept 'because' (or 'influence' or 'cause' or 'connexion')."
"Besides, you will mislead those who rely on you not to be needlessly uninformative, and who will infer that you were not in a position to say the stronger thing."
"When I desire food, I may be aware of my desire for food; thus 'my desiring food' is an object with which I am acquainted."
"But it is something of which I personally have been convinced.)"
"then discrepancies in stimulus meaning from speaker to speaker would tend to count for little where due to vagueness, and for more where not. '"
"Such coullterinstances can, however, perhaps be set aside by treating the phrases 'bachelor of arts' and 'bachelor's huttons' and the quotation bachelor each as a single indivisible word and then stipulating that the interchangeability salva veritate which is to be the touchstone of syn onymy is not supposed to apply to fragmentary occurrences inside of a word."
"(More precisely: perfect match before and after the time relevant to the counterfactual supposition in question as it might be, the time of Nixon's supposed pressing of the button.)"
"Modern positivists are apt to see more clearly that science is not a system of concepts"
"And, as an alternative, I should urge that there is no reason why we should not be able to remember a thing, which we never experienced at all."
"(Or at least they almost hold."
"((I should like to say: These notes say something glorious, but I do not know what."
"Ethics is transcendental."
"Also there are interferences,s drastic sorts."
"But what if no such sample is part of the language, and we bear in mind the colour (for instance) that a word stands for?"
"Can the adherent of the subjective theory in its logical form do the same?"
"It is not correct to say that the so called 'formal' or 'general' implications must be universal statements."
"Though you still owe me a definition of exactness."
"Common sense unhesitatingly answers that there is."
"And what sort of evidence is logically possible?"
"doctnne vas well argued by erre Duhem, La Th( ne phystque:"
"And the reason, which weighs with me most, is one which applies, I think, to a certain class of sensibles only a class which I will try to define by saying that it consists of those which would (under certain conditions which actually exist) be experienced in a sensation proper, if only a living body, having a certain constitution, existed under those conditions in a position in which no such body does actually exist."
"If we say 'If Nixon had bribed such and such a Senator, Nixon would have gotten Carswell through,'"
"Once Pierre is in such a situation, paradoxes analogous to the one about London obviously can arise for rabbits and beeches."
"One did not see before what is now in focus."
"When is a cylinder said to fit into a hollow cylinder H?"
"That the quantum theory should be interpreted statistically was suggested by various aspects of the problem situation."
"conic through two given points circle through three given points"
"(There is a less important difference between my former account and the present one."
"Here one must, I believe, remember that the concept 'proposition' itself is not a sharp one."
"Two propositions are coherent when both may be true, and are incoherent when one at least must be false."
"For why should the language game rest on some kind of knowledge."
"I have seen other passages where 'bedeuten' and 'bezeichnen' are used interchangeably."
"Let 'Beta' name some nonactual world; Beta might have been actual."
"We know that on very many subjects different people hold different and incompatible opinions: hence some beliefs must be erroneous."
"is supposed to outweigh"
"What it appears to assert is, absolutely universally, of every feeling of covetousness, that the feeling in question is one which the person who felt it ought not to have felt."
"But why couldn't it happen that there are closer and closer"
"But his reservations, which would carry over to our version, entirely concern the extraordinary case of an agent who thinks he may somehow have foreknowledge of the outcomes of chance processes."
"And anyone knows better than to read the tale as science fiction: how things would be in a bizarre world where things leave far more traces than they do in ours."
"If, for the reasons given, we reject both, and as interpretations of our five propositions, the only alternative I can think of that remains, is one which is roughly identical, so far as I can see, with Locke's view."
"But that is not to say that we have come to a general agreement about the use of the expression to have the same meaning or to achieve the same."
"All that I am saying is that, even if this is so, this proposition is significant is not merely a proposition about the meaning of a word."
"Some vestige of our habitual respect might well influence how we speak."
"The correct analysis, I suggest, is that the tester is plainly being somewhat humorous when he reports this to the spy."
"Yet this is how it has to be I"
"Thus a momentary thing is a set of particulars, while a thing (which may be identified with the whole history of the thing) is a series of such sets of particulars."
", fit a use What really comes before our mind when we understand a word?"
"This does not in fact follow without using premise, and would be false if the student later doubted that the exam was to be given at all."
"'William Tell' is a mock proper name, we cannot deny it a sense."
"We do not believe it because we see a connexion between the universal man and the universal mortal."
"When we say: Every word in language signifies something we have so far said nothing"
"The simplest Cartesian argument can perhaps be restated as follows:"
"Sometimes a word has the wrong intonation"
"Following the literature mentioned above, we propose to investigate languages allowing truth value gaps."
"a re correlated by rules of translation whereby each idiom not in primitive notation is equated to some complex built up of primitive no tation."
"We may be sure therefore that even in de dicto positions, where substitutivity of simple identity fails, we can depend on substitutivity of necessary identity, rJ is assured by substitutivity of ==. ."
"That follows by a principle of the logic of counterfactuals which is almost uncontroversial:"
"He has a great deal of illuminating material, in particular, about a novel conception of logical validity that accords with this conception of semantics."
"The contrast recurs in 'I want a sloop."
"And the doctrine that mathematics is analytic ac complishes a less fundamental simplification for philosophy than would at first appear, if it asserts only that mathematics a conventional tran scription of logic and not that logic is convention turn: for if in the end we are to countenance any a priori principles at all which a re indepen dent of convention, we sholiid not scruple to admit a few more, nor at tribute crucial importance to conventions which serve only to diminish the nllmber of sllch principles by reducing some to others."
"In general, if a sentence such as asserts that (all, some, most, etc.) of the sentences of a certain class are true, its truth value can be ascertained if the truth values of the sentences in the class are ascertained."
"The theory which we have now to consider regards belief as belonging to every idea which is entertained, except in so far as some positive counteracting force interferes."
"Using this terminology, we can formulate the statistical scatter"
"But how can he wonder whether Leo Peter has a thought that Peter cannot understand?"
"Smith is the speaker's referent, the correct answer to the question, 'To whom were you referring?'"
"And there is, I think, great danger of confusing these different meanings with one another."
"My hypothesis is that Donnellan's referential attributive distinction should be generalized in this light."
"Since everything lies open to view there is nothing to explain."
"Nor am I really going to consider formula."
"All this is neutral ground."
"To avoid running into a vacuous description, we should add a clause: 'or if there is none that short, back to the tallest spy.'"
"He may think up some hypothesis about the causal history of the explanandum event, which hypothesis he then accepts."
"And both comparisons have point."
"The result of these various considerations is that the differences between animals and dead matter, when we confine ourselves to external unscientific observation of integral behaviour, are a matter of degree and not very precise."
"Hence we shall reach the conclusion that Socrates is mortal with a greater approach to certainty if we make our argument purely inductive than if we go by way of 'all men are mortal' and then use deduction."
"Nor do I limit myself to intrinsic properties like size or shape; I include also properties that things have in virtue of their relations to other things."
"One is whether a criminal has been identified; the other is whether the criminal is in danger of being identified soon."
"And, in general, that which makes the sensation of blue a mental fact seems to escape us: it seems, if I may use a metaphor, to be transparent we look through it and see nothing but the blue; we may be convinced that there is something but what it is no philosopher, I think, has yet clearly recognised."
"In the following pages it will be shown that the proposed methodological rule agrees with the physicist's definition, and that the objections raised by questions '), and can be answered with its help."
"rhe Ari,totclian notIonence was the forerunner, no doubt, of the modern notion of ntemion or meaning."
"Sometimes the argument requires it, as in sometimes my principal point could just as well have been put neutrally, as when I allude to other worlds in Mad Pain and Martian Pain."
