"x"
"Moreover, the conclusion to which we have been led is a reasonable one."
"When the windpipe is charged with air, the entrance of the air into the heart, though imperceptible in some animals, is perceptible enough in the larger ones."
"Such a mover must either itself continue to push or pull or perform both these actions, or else the action must be taken up by something else and be passed on from one mover to another (the process that we described before as occurring in the case of things thrown, since the air, being divisible, is a mover in virtue of the fact that different parts of the air are moved one after another); and in either case the motion cannot be a single motion, but only a consecutive series of motions."
"A man would more seem to act from force and involuntarily if he acted to escape violent than if to escape gentle pain, and generally if to escape pain than if to get pleasure."
"How is it that doctors extract teeth more easily by applying the additional weight of a tooth extractor than with the bare hand only?"
"by those animals that participate in this principle?"
"No animal of these genera is provided with double rows of teeth."
"Besides, if their tail is due to reflection, as Aeschylus and Hippocrates say, this planet ought sometimes to be visible without a tail since, as they say, it does not possess a tail in every place in which it falls behind."
"Intellect itself, however, moves nothing, but only the intellect which aims at an end and is practical; for this rules the productive intellect as well, since every one who makes makes for an end, and that which is made is not an end in the unqualified sense (but only relative to something, ie of something) only that which is done is that; for good action is an end, and desire aims at this."
"Only, it must be recognized beforehand that the other man is more likely than you are to commit the crime in question."
"The man, then, is thought to have good luck, because luck is the cause of things contrary to reason, and this is contrary to reason (for it is contrary to knowledge and the universal)."
"The inner part of the hand is the palm, and is fleshy and divided by joints: in the case of long lived people by one or two extending right across, in the case of the short lived by two, not so extending."
"Now no particular probability is universally probable: as Agathon says, One might perchance say this was probable That things improbable oft will hap to men."
"Here the causes are cold and heat, which increase and diminish on account of the sun and its course."
"For birds have the same sort of covering as man; but, whereas in birds the covering is distributed all over the body owing to its abundance, in man it breaks out only on the head; for man is neither on the one hand devoid of hair, nor on the other hand has he sufficient to cover the whole body."
"to which the two weights have to one another."
"For in that case, if the remainder of the account is proper, the whole too will be proper; for absolutely always, if to something"
"Those that depend on whether an expression is used without qualification or in a certain respect and not strictly, occur whenever an expression used in a particular sense is taken as though it were used without qualification, eg '"
"Noble also are those actions whose advantage may be enjoyed after death, as opposed to those whose advantage is enjoyed during one's lifetime; for the latter are more likely to be for one's own sake only."
"But in animals the stomach and intestines represent the ground from which the nutriment is to be taken."
"For some of these are separated from the mother and produced from an egg, within which the differentiation takes place; other animals do not breathe at all, but are produced as a grub or an egg; those which do breathe and whose parts are differentiated within the mother's uterus yet do not breathe until the lung is perfected, and the lung and the preceding parts are differentiated before they breathe."
"Then come the shoulderbones, or blade bones, and the arm bones connected with these, and the bones in the hands connected with the bones of the arms."
"All blooded animals are furnished with a liver."
"Similarly, it is in virtue of a mean condition that the dry and the moist and the rest produce flesh and bone and the remaining compounds."
"If his early ancestors were undistinguished but those who come nearer his own time were men of repute, you must dwell upon his descent from the latter and say that it would be tedious to speak at length about his early forefathers, and you must show that the immediate ancestors of those whom you are eulogizing were good men; adding that it is quite clear that their ancestors must have been good men and true, for it is hardly likely that such excellent and worthy persons can have been born of bad parents."
"For evil is multiform, but good uniform; for instance, health is single, but disease has many shapes."
"Also he should impoverish his subjects; he thus provides against the maintenance of a guard by the citizens, and the people, having to keep hard at work, are prevented from conspiring."
"Of the viscera some appear to be single, as the heart and lung; others to be double, as the kidneys; while of a third kind it is doubtful in which class they should be reckoned."
"The method is the same in all cases, in philosophy and in any art or study."
"I mean, for instance, how could we advise the Athenians whether they should go to war or not, if we did not know their strength, whether it was naval or military or both, and how great it is; what their revenues amount to; who their friends and enemies are; what wars, too, they have waged, and with what success; and so on?"
"As to definitions, then, let so much suffice."
"those which are found to have a power of foresight with regard to their own life."
"Both written and spoken have to be known."
"After this we must first consider moral excellence, its nature, its parts for our inquiry has been forced back on this and how it is produced."
"Dog fish then and their congeners, as the fox shark and the hound, and the flat fishes, such as the electric ray, the ray, the smooth skate, and the trygon, are first oviparous and then viviparous in the way above mentioned."
"But this is the relation of the first to the later, so that the Idea of good is the good per se; for this is also (they say) separable from what participates in it, like all other Ideas."
"But we must take the impossible and the possible not only in the sphere of becoming, but also in the spheres of truth and belonging, and the various other spheres in which we speak of the possible; for it will be alike in all."
"Further it is possible also, when the terms are so arranged, that should belong to C; for nothing prevents falling under, A being possible for every, and necessarily belonging to C; eg if is awake, animal, A motion."
"some contain no marrow at all, and some are only scantily supplied therewith; and that accounts, as was previously observed, for the statement made by certain writers that the lion is marrowless."
"For the middle for the affirmative terms is always affirmative both ways; but for the negative it is necessarily negative in one way, so that this comes to be the single such proposition and the others are affirmative."
"Fishes have no visible organs for hearing or for smell; for what might appear to indicate an organ for smell in the region of the nostril has no communication with the brain in some cases"
"and so is not true', 'Therefore also so and so must be true' so too in enthymemes"
"But if the now is divisible, there will be part of the past in the future and part of the future in the past; for past time will be marked off from future time at the actual point of division."
"This style is unsatisfying just because it goes on indefinitely one always likes to sight a stopping place in front of one: it is only at the goal that men in a race faint and collapse; while they see the end of the course before them, they can keep going."
"Claws they must have, because they belong to a genus in which this is a constant character; but they have them in this indeterminate way, owing to imperfect formation and to their not using them for their natural purpose, but for locomotion."
"Is it because scent is a form of heat and sweet scented things"
"The temperate man occupies a middle position with regard to these objects."
"It is for this reason also that man lives longer than some animals which are larger; for animals live longer though there is a deficiency in the amount of their moisture, if the ratio of its qualitative superiority exceeds that of its quantitative deficiency."
"(for we find that this is so even with partridges)?"
"For it is quite as necessary as that of the executioners; but good men do all they can to avoid it, and worthless persons cannot safely be trusted with it; for they themselves require a guard, and are not fit to guard others."
"Is it because wine mixed with water is weaker than unmixed wine?"
"If, however, it forms at the side of the sun, it is possible for the refractor to be at such a distance that neither does the sun dissolve it nor does the sight ascend weaken by passing under the earth."
"For the flesh of those who wash in cold water becomes solid, and the hot matter collects within; but the flesh of those who use warm water becomes rare, and the hot matter is diverted to the outside of the body."
"The bison again, whose horns curve inwards towards each other, is provided with a means of protection in the discharge of its excrement; and of this it avails itself when frightened."
"Now if you have proofs to bring forward, bring them forward, and also talk about character; if you have no enthymemes, then fall back on character: after all, it is more fitting for a good man to display himself as an honest fellow than as a subtle reasoner."
"Other animals again are protected by the possession of tusks; and among these are the swine, though they have a cloven hoof."
"the knowable the thing measured"
"The warmth and light which proceed from them are caused by the friction set up in the air by their motion."
"Why are the shadows thrown by the moon longer than those thrown by the sun, though both are thrown by the same perpendicular object?"
"But if it consists of points, it will not possess any magnitude."
"It carries off the moisture in the shape of vapour (if there is not too much of it), being itself driven out by the surrounding cold."
"Of that which is hot per se and that which is hot per accidens, the former is the slower to cool, while not rarely the latter is the hotter to the touch."
"Branches are only found on trees."
"actions good absolutely, such as those a man does for his country without thinking of himself; actions good in their own nature; actions that are not good simply for the individual, since individual interests are selfish."
"We call a having a kind of activity of the haver and the had something like an action or movement."
"Or is it not after all a change into the likeness of the female rather than the male?"
"For to suppose that a body (i.e. a magnitude) is divisible through and through, and that this division is possible, involves a difficulty."
"Anaxagoras that it is part of the upper ether (which he calls fire) which has descended from above."
"Those who use the term as one of reproach ascribe self love to people who assign to themselves the greater share of wealth, honours, and bodily pleasures; for these are what most people desire, and busy themselves about as though they were the best of all things, which is the reason, too, why they become objects of competition."
"For the former require definition, while the latter have to be arrived at through many steps if one wishes to secure a continuous proof from first principles, or else the arguments wear the air of sophistry; for to demonstrate anything is impossible unless one begins with the appropriate principles, and connects inference with inference till the last are reached."
"It is therefore obvious that every body must have a definite weight or lightness."
"The cause of these shooting stars is sometimes the motion which ignites the exhalation."
"Also the conclusion may be true if one is negative, the other affirmative."
"Why is it easier to hear sounds from outside in a house than those from inside a house outside it?"
"But now it is proved universally; for it did not belong to things as lines or as numbers, but as this which they suppose to belong universally."
"Hence these points must first claim our attention, in order that we may not be thought to make unsubstantiated charges against authors no longer alive."
"Therefore our opponents must say that there cannot be such a definition of anything, but that all attributes are accidental; for this is the distinction between substance and accident white is accidental to man, because though he is white, whiteness is not his essence."
"Why is it that in sheep the longer the hair grows the harder it is, whereas in man it is softer?"
"(f Children and the brutes pursue pleasures."
"The scorpaena breeds twice a year."
"The bee lives for six years as a rule, as an exception for seven years."
"At present it must be enough to recognize the distinctions already drawn; a thing may be said to be potential in either of two senses, either in the sense in which we might say of a boy that he may become a general or in the sense in which we might say the same of an adult, and there are two corresponding senses of the term 'a potential sentient'."
"For it is clear that refutation consists Prior Analytics."
"Is it because a small amount of liquid, as it is carried along, is more divided up by the wind than a large amount?"
"The Directors of Education, as they are termed, should be careful"
"Moreover, see if the term that has been defined is in the nature of things found primarily in some single subject, whereas the things from which he has said it is made are not found primarily in any single subject, but each in a separate one."
"This is why green plants grow together again; and why wounds close up more readily in the young than in the old."
"And it has been shown that, if this is so, contradictories cannot be predicated at the same time."
"In the emission of semen there is a preliminary discharge of air, and the outflow is manifestly caused by a blast of air; for nothing is cast to a distance save by force of air."
"So, too, in the same way, Fire and Water will result from Air and Earth."
"Let us not dwell further upon this, which is a purely verbal question; what we want is a common term including both juryman and member of the assembly."
"(e.g. the belief that every man is just is contrary to the belief 'every man is unjust'), the same must hold also of spoken affirmations."
"For fresh water comes from the earth or from streams, and its source sends forth earth also with the water, so that the streams, not being pure, bring down with them the earth and sediment."
"and so the object must be left revolving in a lesser and lesser circle until it reaches the middle."
"such a phenomenon is an abnormality."
"Its genital organ, as has been said, consists of bone: the organ of the male is supposed to be a cure for strangury; doctors scrape it into powder, and administer it in that form."
"But no more will the liberal man take from wrong sources; for such taking is not characteristic of the man who sets no store by wealth."
"For if it depends on false but reputable premisses, the argument is dialectical; if on true but implausible premisses, it is bad; if they are both false and also entirely implausible, clearly it is bad, either without qualification or else in relation to the particular matter in hand."
"For the formal nature is of greater importance than the material nature."
"Now the right and the left side are pretty well alike in their parts and Reading ailourois for lophourois."
"Let A stand for there being a single science, and for things which are contrary to one another."
"For object of opinion will be a predicate of what does not exist; for many things which do not exist are objects of opinion; whereas that being or object of knowledge is not predicated of what does not exist is clear."
"He goats, if they be fat, are less serviceable for breeding; and this is the reason why they say of a vine when it stops bearing that it is 'running the goat'."
"The same distinction is found in the case of the mover; for it causes movement either in an accidental sense or in respect of a part of itself or essentially."
"So Anaxagoras does not adequately explain how the air is the cause; though, as has been said, it certainly is the cause."
"not of 'popularity' but of 'universal popularity', and 'dispenser of pleasure to his audience', and 'he concealed it' not 'with boughs' but 'with boughs of the forest trees', and 'he clothed' not 'his body' but 'his body's nakedness', and 'his soul's desire was counter imitative' (this at one and the same time a compound and an epithet, so that it seems a poet's effort), and 'so extravagant the excess of his wickedness'."
"And thus it is that from which the seed comes which is the origin and fabricator of its offspring."
"They treated mese, then, as the lower note of the upper 'pycnon'; whence came the name mese."
"Hunger and thirst are forms of desire, hunger a desire for what is dry and hot, thirst a desire for what is cold and moist; flavour is a sort of seasoning added to both."
"Everything that comes into being or is made must be made out of something, be made by the agency of something, and must become something."
"Plainly, however, that cause is the first which we call that for the sake of which."
"The style of written prose is not that of spoken oratory, nor are those of political and forensic speaking the same."
"hence the words of Euripides, But"
"or milk or water or anything similar."
"And if the boundaries come into being and cease to be, from what do they come into being?"
"For this reason too there is usually less disturbance; for it is the sun which is the source of movement."
"The same thing occurs in those who lisp; for in them the organs employed in speech are too slow."
"So much for the particles; from these examples you must infer the use of others."
"Hence the parts about the head begin to form next in order after the heart, and surpass the other parts in size, for the brain is from the first large and fluid."
"Is it because a thing is being drawn apart most vigorously when it is being dragged or moved violently in a contrary direction?"
"It is dim sighted in the day time, but sees well enough by night."
"The goods of fortune also are thought to contribute towards pride."
"Yet, on the other hand, it is absurd to say that it perishes after making either all the parts or only some of them."
"The populousness of democracies generally preserves them (for number is to democracy in the place of justice based on merit); whereas the preservation of an oligarchy clearly depends on an opposite principle, viz."
"To say then that there is no reason why anything should not be generated and yet indestructible or ungenerated and yet destroyed, to imagine that in the one case generation and in the other case destruction occurs once for all, is to destroy part of the data."
"Is it because both these things prevent the collection of moisture and the consequent swelling?"
"But the definition of the secondary substances, as well as the name, is predicated of the subject: you will predicate the definition of man of the individual man, and also that of animal."
"A period may be either divided into several members or simple."
"If the spring be late, or if there be drought or blight, then grubs are all the fewer in the hives."
"The owners of the property therefore bought them, and a large sum was thus collected."
"Why is it that wine and water seem sweeter when taken with something sour, if, for instance, one munches acorns or myrtle berries or something of the kind?"
"If then and A belong to one subject, the case will be the same with them as with and B; and form a single identity with different modes of being; so too will the former pair."
"Is it because in the latter two cases the available material is used up to form bulk, while in the other animals it goes into excretions, and in sheep and goats the residue of the excretion all becomes milk?"
"Why is it more fatiguing to the arm if one casts with the hand empty than with a stone in it?"
"The justice therefore that exists between persons so related is not the same but proportioned to merit; for that is true of the friendship as well."
"in so far as a point is contained in the line which one is subtracting from another line."
"Let A then be moved by, by, by, and so on, each member of the series being moved by that which comes next to it."
"So the rain that falls is charged with a great quantity of this stuff."
"For the same reason the lip hangs down when a man is angry, as can be seen clearly in children; for the heat rushes together into the heart."
"so that the soul will start both processes from the same principle, applying them to the same object."
"For that some of them may fail to occur, is clear and that is why 'it will be' and 'it is going to be' are different."
"If, on the other hand, it is a different now, there will be a period of time intermediate between the two; for, as we saw, nows are not consecutive."
"as they would an orator who brought forward an unconstitutional measure: they detest the notion that, because one man has the power of doing violence and is superior in brute strength, another shall be his slave and subject."
"A difficulty, and a reproach to any one who finds it no difficulty, are contained in the question how the elements and the principles are related to the good and the beautiful; the difficulty is this, whether any of the elements is such a thing as we mean by the good itself and the best, or this is not so, but these are later in origin."
"There are some joints, again, in which the lower end of the one bone and the upper end of the other are alike in shape; and cartilaginous pieces are interposed in the joint, to serve as a kind of padding, and prevent the two extremities from grating against each other."
"That would be absurd, and the reason is that there are different species of motion."
"Is it because to know its length is to be able to connect a number with it?"
"Never put vowels in juxtaposition, unless it is impossible to make your meaning clear otherwise, or unless a pause or some other division occurs."
"Every one admits this, that if the whole world originated the sea did too; for they make them come into being at the same time."
"Their organs of sense have already been considered."
"Now, the oligarchical demagogue is of two sorts: either he practises upon the oligarchs themselves (for, although the oligarchy are quite a small number, there may be a demagogue among them, as at Athens Charicles' party won power by courting the Thirty, that of Phrynichus by courting the Four Hundred); or the oligarchs may play the demagogue with the people."
"And this accounts for the fact that the sponges found in the Hellespont are rough and close textured; and, as a general rule, sponges found beyond or inside Cape Malea are, respectively, comparatively soft or comparatively hard."
"He also argued that he himself was more akin to Harmodius and Aristogeiton than his opponent was. '"
"Take, for example, 'Philo's is' or 'Philo's is not'; so far there is nothing either true or false."
"But perhaps one might raise the following sort of question also, 'If I really know these things, shall I then be happy'?"
"It is equally absurd to suppose that anything has been explained by calling the sea 'the sweat of the earth', like Empedocles."
"Again, things turn black through which water percolates if they first become coated with lichen"
"At present definitions are given in a form analogous to the conclusion of an argument; eg What is squaring?"
"Whenever, then, we say that a living thing is at present immune from destruction, we mean that it is at present a living thing of such a kind as never to be destroyed; and this is equivalent to saying that it is immortal, so that it is not meant that it is immortal only at present."
"all three opinions have been entertained."
"For present time joins on to both past time and future time."
"Thus sneezing is revered as sacred as being a sign of health in the best and most sacred region of the body, and is regarded as a good omen."
"Cataract attacks the blue eyed more, but what is called night blindness the darkeyed."
"Are we then to say that the universe is composed of indivisibles?"
"(And the same holds good of becoming and perishing, except that in these processes we have a change to a particular kind of opposite, while the other, motion, is a change to a different kind.)"
"Why is it that an object which is carried round in whirling water is always eventually carried into the middle?"
"Again, nutriment is not carried by the airducts to all parts, for instance to the vessels themselves and certain other parts; but nevertheless plants live and receive nourishment."
"Yet surely no one sense, or, if any, the sense of sight rather than any other, can discern the common sensibles."
"A peculiarity of this bird and of the nightingale is that the outer extremity of the tongue is not sharp pointed."
"But if the infinite body has unlike parts, the proper places of the parts are unlike also, and, firstly, the body of the universe is not one except by contact, and, secondly, the parts will be either finite or infinite in kind."
"And since every change is from something to something as the word itself indicates, implying something 'after' something else, that is to say something earlier and something lat"
"And from this sense of necessary all the others are somehow derived; for as regards the compulsory we say that it is necessary to act or to be acted on, only when we cannot act according to impulse because of the compelling force, which implies that necessity is that because of which the thing cannot be otherwise; and similarly as regards the conditions of life and of good, when in the one case good, in the other life and being, are not possible without certain conditions, these are necessary, and this cause is a kind of necessity."
"When your hearers are neither prejudiced against you nor well disposed, you must say that it is right and expedient that they should give a favourable ear to those citizens who have not yet given a proof of their quality as speakers."
"Why do the South winds when they blow gently cause no overclouding, but when they become strong overcloud the sky?"
"Of things which move in their own right, some derive their motion from themselves, others from something else: and in some cases their motion is natural, in others violent and unnatural."
"I mean such animals as crayfish and crabs."
"He therefore ordered the Mylassians each to contribute as much money as possible, saying that by what they paid now they would save the rest of their possessions."
"Clear then if any of the opposite pairs of parts (right and left, that is, superior and inferior, before and behind) have a movement of their own, each of them has a common source of its movements at the juncture of the parts in question."
"Since then those who live in cold districts have a powerful principle of growth in themselves, and those who live in hot regions encounter no external cold which prevents their growth, both naturally admit of considerable increase in stature."
"The male keeps on guard at the principal spawning place, and the female after spawning goes away."
"We must think of it as a river flowing up and down in a circle and made up partly of air, partly of water."
"For suppose, the terms being so related, that A is possible, and is impossible."
"but also if one takes a middle term from a different chain.g."
"But other things as well may have been moved now, and there would be a number of each of the two movements."
"Let us proceed to the theory of winds."
"Even to this day the Perioeci are governed by the original laws which Minos is supposed to have enacted."
"To them the absolutely best end is good."
"Bees brood over the combs and so mature them; if they fail to do so, the combs are said to go bad and to get covered with a sort of spider's web."
"and this does not belong to this; so that there will be principles some to the effect that something is, and others to the effect that something is not."
"In fact, in the whole of Europe"
"so, when desire comes upon him, the part in which it is collected desires friction."
"For the benefactor claims a return on the ground of having done a great service, because he has done it at the request of the other, or with some other plea of the great value of the benefit to the other's interest, saying nothing about what it was to himself; while the recipient insists on its value to the benefactor, not on its value to himself."
"Let us call an affirmation and a negation which are opposite a contradiction."
"For the tail which in the former case is an affection of a single star here forms in the same way in relation to a whole circle."
"So that the just seems to be the proportional."
"But however excellent their theories may otherwise be, anyhow they cannot be held to speak as students of nature."
"Shepherds train sheep to close in together at a clap of their hands, for if, when a thunderstorm come on, a ewe stays behind without closing in, it will miscarry if it be with young;"
"The winds which blow continuously from the rising sun are called Euri; those from the north, Boreae; those from the setting sun, Zephyri; those from the south, Noti."
"That for the sake of which has two senses, viz."
"For the meaning is not the same if one divides the words and if one combines them in saying that walking while sitting is possible."
"If the latter, to what sort of substance is the present science to be assigned?"
"Others are prior in arrangement; these are the things that are placed at certain intervals in reference to some one definite thing according to some rule,"
"Clearly, therefore, the two processes must be carried out one after another, but neither can be performed twice consecutively."
"Any argument based upon what usually See Topics."
"The words, too, ought to set the scene before our eyes; for events ought to be seen in progress rather than in prospect."
"eg if some form of knowledge is good in a greater degree than pleasure, while no form of knowledge is good, then pleasure is not good either."
"the selachia, the white conger, the channa, the erythrinus, and the glaucus."
"less severe; and if the condition is very mild, offspring are produced in a rather poor state, as though nourished in a poor container."
"And the same with hearing and the like."
"In the first place they will strive to perform all duty towards their parents, the husband towards those of his wife no less than towards his own, and she in her turn towards his."
"Again, look and see if, supposing the one to be the same as something, the other also is the same as it; for if they are not both the same as the same thing, clearly neither are they the same as one another."
"Hence those who are in a position which places them above toil have stewards who attend to their households while they occupy themselves with philosophy or with politics."
"Why is it that, if one strikes nete and then stops it down, hypate seems to respond?"
"that in a moment it heals wounds and bruises both of men and of beasts of burden; and if any one throws wood into it, without having quite broken it, but having merely split it, this unites, and is restored again to its original state."
"Such then are the phenomena which occur as the result of moist exhalation."
"For these are the most productive, just as with the other animals and plants whose nature is analogous to theirs, for the increase of size turns with them to seed."
"If it be frightened, it fills its shell with water and sinks."
"So birds too produce monstrosities; for they lay twin eggs, and their monstrosities are born from such eggs in which the yolk is not separated by the membrane."
"Walk after dinner, C; the foodstuffs' not remaining on the surface, B; being healthy,."
"Be on your guard against calling disgraceful actions by disgraceful names, so as not to violate conventional feeling, but express such things by indirect hints and explain the facts in words which are really applicable to different actions."
"It takes place for the same reason as it does with the fingers; for then the touch is imitating the sight."
"Also, noticing that there was much litigation among the citizens and that there were grievances of long standing among them owing to war, he established a court of law and proclaimed that unless they submitted their cases to judgement within a period which he appointed, there would be no further settlement of their former claims."
"The conclusion is either true or false necessarily."
"It is paradoxical also not to suppose a contrary to the good, ie to thought."
"But again it is not supreme over wisdom, ie over the superior part of us, any more than the art of medicine is over health; for it does not use it but provides for its coming into being; it issues orders, then, for its sake, but not to it."
"The like conclusion follows from their using the asperity of their bodies as a protection against their enemies."
"Then, from the persons so chosen, he says that there ought to be an equal number of each class selected."
"But the best of all is the last; what we have in Cresphontes, for example, where Merope, on the point of slaying her son, recognizes him in time; in Iphigenia, where sister and brother are in a like position; and in Helle, where the son recognizes his mother, when on the point of giving her up to her enemy."
"To feel pleasure or pain is to act with the sensitive mean towards what is good or bad as such."
"And since it is fire which creates movement in our parts, and this during sleep is driven inwards and leaves the region of the head, where the seat of sensation is situated, our organs of sense would then be most at rest, and this must be the cause of sleep."
"And since the signs of excellence and such acts as it is the mark of a good man to do or have done to him, are noble, it follows that all deeds or signs of courage, and everything done courageously, must be noble things; and so with what is just and actions done justly."
"But it is not possible that either unity or being should be a genus of things; for the differentiae of any genus must each of them both have being and be one, but it is not possible for the genus to be predicated of the differentiae taken apart from the species (any more than for the species of the genus to be predicated of the proper differentiae of the genus); so that if unity or being is a genus, no differentia will either be one or have being."
"Is it because shrillness in the voice is rapidity, and what is carried forcibly along moves more rapidly, and what is carried violently along is carried farther?"
"In the same way also, if 'healthy' is used in more than one way, then 'healthily' also will be used in more than one way: eg if healthy is what produces health and what preserves health and what betokens health, then 'healthily' also will be used to mean 'in such a way as to produce' or 'preserve' or 'betoken' health."
"So again are possessions that bring no profit, since they are more fitting than others for a gentleman."
"Hence also the people at the extremes push the intermediate man each over to the other, and the brave man is called rash by the coward, cowardly by the rash man, and correspondingly in the other cases."
"Why does man produce more moist than dry excrement, but horses and asses more dry than moist?"
"And, conversely, if the substratum is one, there is alteration."
"And so flying insects, and birds whose tails are ill adapted for the use in question, for example peacocks, anddomestic cocks, and generally birds that hardly fly, cannot steer a straight course."
"Of relations which imply capacity some further imply particular periods of time, eg that which has made is relative to that which has been made and that which will make to that which will be made."
"Of animals, some resemble one another in all their parts, while others have parts wherein they differ."
"Again in the winter, since the body is cool, it is also unnatural to perspire."
"In all animals furnished with bones, the backbone is the point of origin."
"Each of these is called, by a common name, an animal, and the definition of being is also the same; for if one is to give the definition of each what being an animal is for each of them"
"Is it because pallor is as it were a corruption of the flesh?"
"Their constitution approximates them on one side to plants, on the other to animals."
"Consequently, the parts connected with this function differ in form; for some animals have a womb and others an organ analogous thereto."
"Thus all the other bodies will result from the contraries, or from the elements, in so far as these have been combined; while the elements will result from the contraries, in so far as these exist potentially in a special sense not as matter exists potentially, but in the sense explained above."
"Thus in the original combinations the 'ox progeny', if they failed to reach a determinate end must have arisen through the corruption of some principle, as happens now when the seed is defective."
"But if that which is later in generation is prior in nature, and that which is concocted and compounded is later in generation, the contrary of what we have been saying must be true, water must be prior to air, and earth to water."
"Next, for destructive purposes, see if, while intending to render an attribute that naturally belongs, he states it in his language in such a way as to indicate one that invariably belongs; for then it would seem that what has been stated to be a property is upset."
"Nature intends to do this often but cannot."
"to their stickiness, penetrate into the gums, and, because they are soft, insinuate themselves into the spaces between the teeth, and, being hot, quickly cause decay?"
"For a right election can only be made by those who have knowledge; those who know geometry, for example, will choose a geometrician rightly, and those who know how to steer, a pilot; and, even if there be some occupations and arts in which private persons share in the ability to choose, they certainly cannot choose better than those who know."
"Just as the writers on natural phenomena explain the first origin of animals as being due to powerful changes and movements in the world and universe; so now, if it is to happen again, some similar movements must take place."
"Again, the cuttings from a plant bear seed; clearly, therefore, even before they were cut, they bore their fruit from their own mass alone, and the seed did not come from all the plant."
"Or is it dichametros as from dicha ('into two parts')."
"And if this is so the one party must be taken to be the measure, and the other must not."
"Especially, injurious alterations and movements, and, above all, painful injuries."
"And what has been said generally as to the effect of the seasons applies also in detail; for changes of winds and of age and of locality are to some extent changes of season."
"For at present we have explained no more than why, when two things change reciprocally into one another, we do not attribute coming to be and passing away uniformly to them both, although every coming to be is a passing away of something else and every passing away"
"Why does the Lake of Paesus, of which the water is fresh, wash and also remove the stains from garments?"
"eg Chiefest of blessings is health for a man, as it seemeth to me, this being the general opinion; or because, as soon as the view is stated, it is clear at a glance, eg No love is true save that which loves for ever."
"Those who thought thus stated that there is a principle of things which is at the same time the cause of beauty, and that sort of cause from which things acquire movement."
"agents which have not the same matter as their patients, act without themselves suffering action."
"All such arguments as the following depend upon the combination or division of the words: 'Was he being beaten with that with which you saw him being beaten?'"
"Animals, then, are composed of homogeneous parts, and are also composed of heterogeneous parts."
"If, on the other hand, it means what is not in any sense at all, it will be a universal negation of all forms of being, so that what comes to be will have to come to be out of nothing."
"For as the body declines in vigour we tend to be cold at every time of life, and especially in old age, this age being cold and dry."
"Thus (e.g.) a man who has stated that it is a property of a living creature to be compounded of soul and body has used in addition neither the subject itself nor any of its species, and therefore in this respect the property of a living creature will have been correctly rendered."
"strative arguments has been discussed in the Analytics, while that of dialectic arguments and examinational arguments has been discussed elsewhere: let us now proceed to speak of the arguments used in competitions and contests."
"Some people identify it with Apeliotes."
"In like manner they all have the same food at their public tables, and the rich wear only such clothing as any poor man can afford."
"The evils due to chance are: friendlessness, scarcity of friends (it is a pitiful thing to be torn away from friends and companions), deformity, weakness, mutilation; evil coming from a source from which good ought to have come; and the frequent repetition of such misfortunes."
"it is enough to show in a single case only that it fails to belong; further, even if it belongs to everything falling under the term, but not to that only, it is overthrown in this case as well, as was explained in the case of the definition."
"Where the territory also happens to extend to a distance from the city, there is no difficulty in making an excellent democracy or constitutional government; for the people are compelled to settle in the country, and even if there is a town population the assembly ought not to meet, in democracies, when the country people cannot come."
"This is why the rowers who are amidships move the ship most; for it is in the middle of the ship that the length of the oar from the thole pin inside the ship is greatest."
"I mean, for instance, the same wine might seem, if either it or one's body changed, at one time sweet and at another time not sweet; but at least the sweet, such as it is when it exists, has never yet changed, but one is always right about it, and that which is to be sweet must of necessity be of such and such a nature."
"Each vein of the other pair stretches from the region of the ear to the brain, and branches off in a number of fine and delicate veins into the so called meninx which surrounds the brain."
"See On the Heavens ff."
"(e.g. the boy is prior to the man); and the prime mover also is a beginning absolutely."
"(Bird and Man for instance are both Two footed, but their two footedness is diverse and differentiated."
"For the nutcracker consists of two levers, with the same fulcrum, namely, their point of connexion."
"The stomach in most birds is fleshy and hard, and inside is a strong skin which comes away from the fleshy part."
"For there are some who say that the semen, though one, is as it were a seed aggregate of many elements; just as, if one should mix many juices in one liquid and then take some from it, it would be possible to take, not an equal quantity always from each juice, but sometimes more of one and sometimes more of another, sometimes some of one and none at all of another, so they say it is with the generative fluid, which is a mixture of many elements, for the offspring resembles that parent from which it has derived most."
"For the necessary has all these senses that which is necessary perforce because it is contrary to impulse, that without which the good is impossible, and that which cannot be otherwise but is absolutely necessary."
"Similarly some infants at birth have white hair and eyelashes and eyebrows, a circumstance which normally occurs when old age is coming on and is then clearly due to weakness and lack of nutriment."
"The sense of touch, as has been remarked, is common to all animals."
"From this possibility, that the same differentia may be used of two genera neither of which contains the other, it is clear also that there is no necessity for the differentia to carry with it every appropriate genus, but only the one or the other together with the genera that are higher than this, as biped carries with it either winged or terrestrial animal."
"Hence people who are afflicted by sickness or poverty or love or thirst or any other unsatisfied desires are prone to anger and easily roused: especially against those who slight their present distress."
"Of the indestructible the same account holds good."
"The sea is there and some of it is continually being drawn up and becoming sweet; this returns from above with the rain."
"Accordingly, the act of recollecting ought to be distinguished from these acts; ie recollecting must imply in those who recollect the presence of some source over and above that from which they originally learn."
"We grasp, then, the number of considerations on which all such depend; and if we grasp this, we grasp their solutions as well; for the objections to these are the solutions of them."
"There is a small part similar to this connected with the testes in the system of quadrupeds, for part of the folded duct is sanguineous and part is not; the fluid is already semen when it is received by and passes through this latter part, so that once it has arrived there it is soon emitted in these quadrupeds also."
"Hence it is absurd in this and similar cases to look for a common definition which will not express the peculiar nature of anything that is and will not apply to the appropriate indivisible species, while at the same time omitting to look for an account which will."
"they think everyone else is taking what belongs to themselves."
"Since the same thing would have to hold in any like case."
": we have discussed the matter precisely in the treatise concerning dialectic."
"If, therefore, the contrary of the one term does not follow upon the contrary of the other either directly or conversely, clearly neither does the one term follow upon the other in the statement made; whereas if the one follows the other in the case of the contraries, it must of necessity"
"Pericles then asked, 'Do you know them yourself?' '"
"The citizen should be moulded to suit the form of government under which he lives."
"Let one of these parts be called the scientific and the other the calculative; for to deliberate and to calculate are the same thing, but no one deliberates about what cannot be otherwise."
", if you wish to prove that knowledge is essentially conviction, see whether the knower in knowing is convinced; for then clearly knowledge will be a particular kind of conviction."
"But it is unreasonable that the pace of each star should be exactly proportioned to the size of its circle."
"He compares this process to what occurs in a clepsydra."
"Let us now deal with the most remarkable conditions which are produced in and around the earth, summarizing them in the barest outline."
"a They say that among the Illyrians those who are called Taulantians make wine out of honey."
"The uterus is always double, just as the testes are always two in the male."
"Moral', here and hereafter, is used in the archaic sense of 'pertaining to character or mores'."
"If this were otherwise, the gods and the universe, who have no external actions over and above their own energies, would be far enough from perfection."
"The expansion, when the body increased the place occupied, would be on the same principle as the contraction, in which the place was diminished."
"For those who are in vapour baths perspire under these conditions more freely than if all the heat be applied at once."
"Human beings also go grey on the head as they grow old, but this is not visible in practically any other animal, though more so in the horse than others."
"The third class is that of traders, and by traders"
"Accordingly, the beginning of this malady takes place with many during sleep, and their subsequent habitual seizures occur in sleep, not in waking hours."
"Reading dia pente hemiolion, to d' hemiolion."
"Again, some creatures come into being neither from parents of the same kind nor from parents of a different kind, as flies and the various kinds of what are called fleas; from these are produced animals indeed, but not in this case of similar nature, but a kind of grub."
"Now these ducts being in this condition are better able to receive the moisture than those leading downwards from the heart."
"For there are in the mind similar figures and movements."
"But as time goes on places of the latter type dry up more, while those of the former, moist type, do so less: until at last the beginning of the same cycle returns."
"If, then, existence is in itself desirable for the blessed man (since it is by its nature good and pleasant), and that of his friend is very much the same, a friend will be one of the things that are desirable."
"But choice seems to be what its name suggests; I mean, we choose one thing instead of another; for instance, the better instead of the worse."
"Let A and be infinites, being the time of the action of A upon."
"And so with the other animals the action on compulsion is simple (just as in the inanimate), for they have not desire and reason opposing one another, but live by desire; but man has both"
"Now, if sense perception is the function of something, this also, if it continues beyond the time for which it can perceive continuously, will lose its power and will do its work no longer."
"Such an object cannot then be carried along in its original position; still less can it be carried along in the outer circle, for the velocity of the outer circle is greater."
"Let us call them indefinite verbs, because they hold indifferently of anything whether existent or non existent."
"For things are called keen in two ways (and this is the case in like manner with hearing and smelling)."
"This will be possible first, if, instead of drawing the conclusions of preliminary deductions, they make the necessary assumptions and leave the conclusions in the dark; secondly if instead of inviting assent to propositions which are closely connected they take as far as possible those that are not connected by middle terms."
"They say that all honey when congealed preserves an equal volume, not like water and all other liquids."
"The head is clearly distinguished, and in it the eyes, swollen out to a great extent."
"Enthymemes based upon probabilities are those which argue from what is, or is supposed to be, usually true."
"But at the outset we must consider the man by whom we are being benefited and on what terms he is acting, in order that we may accept the benefit on these terms, or else decline it."
"Some of these bodies are soluble, eg natron, some insoluble, eg pottery: of the latter, some, like horn, can be softened by heat, others, like pottery and stone cannot."
"For this is what it is to be that thing."
"The explanation of a colour's being similar to a colour and a figure to a figure is different in the different cases."
"whereas Agamemnon did wrong to his wife for the sake of Chryseis, declaring in open assembly that a base captive woman, and of alien race besides, was in no way inferior to Clytemnestra in womanly excellence."
"The whole land of the Egyptians, whom we take to be the most ancient of men, has evidently come into existence and been produced by the river."
"Two membranes enclose it: the stronger one is nearer the bone; the one round the brain itself is finer."
"The cause of the condition is deficiency of hot moisture, such moisture being especially the greasy and hence greasy plants are more evergreen."
"(How this connatural spirit is maintained in the body is explained in other passages of our works.)"
"Is it because, as has already been remarked, the vision is disturbed, with the result that the same glance does not rest on the same object for any length of time?"
"In every case heat and cold determine, conjoin, and change things of the same kind and things of different kinds, moistening, drying, hardening, and softening them."
"The beaver is flatter than the otter and has strong teeth; it often at night time emerges from the water and goes nibbling at the bark of the aspens that fringe the riversides."
"the weight of three masses of the full size of will be greater than."
"The argument would prove that everything which is put at the centre must stay there."
"But, as we said before, melodious and poetical as the theory is, it cannot be a true account of the facts."
"And what Plato has written in the Timae is not based on any precisely articulated conception."
"At any rate, my deeds are more akin to those of Harmodius and Aristogeiton than yours are'."
"For seeing that it was not possible (as once the foolish Aloadae attempted) by means of the body to reach the heavenly region and leaving the earth behind to spy out that holy country, the soul by means of philosophy, taking the intellect as her guide, finding an easy path has tranversed the intervening space and fared forth, and by intelligence comprehended things very far removed in space from one another, easily, I think, recognizing those things which have kinship with herself, and by the divine eye of the soul apprehending things divine and interpreting them to mankind."
"At the commencement of the process of depositing the honeycomb, they throw off a slippery mucus, and of this the husklike formations are composed."
"Birds have the flexions of their limbs like those of the quadrupeds; for, although bipeds, they bend their legs backwards, and instead of arms or front legs have wings which bend frontwards."
"For it is the instrument through which they derive their sensations of food, as well as that"
"This must therefore be a different kind of movement; for movement is an activity of what is imperfect, activity in the unqualified sense, ie that of what has been perfected, is different."
"This can be illustrated by the fact that those who have eaten or drunk somewhat freely, though they have exerted themselves less than when they were fasting, yet feel more fatigue, because the food, being unconcocted, is not in its proper place."
"That change in the colour of fruit occurs by the formation of a fresh colour, which ousts the earlier one, can easily be seen from the following examples."
"Well, if here it is being indifferent to good and bad fortune, I take these two things and inquire what both indifference to fortune and not brooking dishonour have that is the same."
"For if it were, then, if it be divisible at its centre, it will be divisible also at a contiguous point."
"So that if democracy be a real form of government, the sort of system in which all things are regulated by decrees is clearly not even a democracy in the true sense of the word, for decrees relate only to particulars."
"But when the cold has been concentrated within still more by the outer heat, it freezes the water it has formed and there is hail."
"To attain any knowledge about the soul is one of the most difficult things in the world."
"If all wine has some sediment in it then it will belong to earth or to water according to the quantity of the sediment it possesses.)"
"But it has now become a habit among the citizens of states not even to care about equality; all men are seeking fordominion, or, if conquered, are willing to submit."
"Now the eternally fine, and the truly and primarily good (which is not at one time good, at another time not good), is too divine and precious to be relative to anything else."
"this is sheer sophistry; nor is it in the least in accordance with the mathematical assumption as to commensurability."
"The thinking part of the soul must therefore be, while impassible, capable of receiving the form of an object; that is, must be potentially identical in character with its object without being the object."
"the one, then, is the beginning of the knowable regarding each class."
"Does it describe a straight line at first, because the air on either side of it alike keeps it upright?"
"And where is right reason'?"
"Man belongs to all three classes, for he produces one only and sometimes many or few, though naturally he almost always produces one."
"I have drawn for you the circle of the earth and indicated the positions of the winds, and the directions in which they blow, so that they may be presented to your vision."
"Expressed universally our argument is as follows."
"For there cannot be a continuous process either of increase or of decrease: that which comes between the two has to be included."
"After strong stimulation of a sense we are less able to exercise it than before, as eg in the case of a loud sound we cannot hear easily immediately after, or in the case of a bright colour or a powerful odour we cannot see or smell, but in the case of thought thinking about an object that is highly thinkable renders it more and not less able afterwards to think of objects that are less thinkable: the reason is that while the faculty of sensation is dependent upon the body, thought is separable from it."
"For Empedocles says that when men change their condition they change their knowledge; For wisdom increases in men according to their present state"
"Time then is a kind of number."
"We must now say what are definition, property, genus, and accident."
"Secondly, there are many who say that nothing is"
"Again, since the stars are spherical, as our opponents assert and we may consistently admit, inasmuch as we construct them out of the spherical body, and a since the spherical body has two movements proper to itself, namely rolling and spinning, it follows that if the stars have a movement of their own, it will be one of these."
"And is it by the agency of time, which, as he declares, makes all things change, that things which did not begin together, change together?"
"Further, a refutation differs from a sign, because some signs cause those who hear them merely to entertain an opinion, whereas every refutation teaches the truth to the judges."
"This is what Prodicus called 'slipping in a bit of the fifty drachma show lecture Marked by Kassel as a later addition by himself."
"In small states, as we have already remarked, there must not be many of them, but in larger states there must be a larger number, and we should carefully consider which offices may properly be united and which separated."
"Depending on things that are primitive is depending on appropriate principles; for I call the same thing primitive and a principle."
"But if praise is for things such as we have described, clearly what applies to the best things is not praise, but something greater and better, as is indeed obvious; for what we do to the gods and the most godlike of men is to call them blessed and happy."
"They do not go into hiding at one and the same season; but the snails go in winter, the purple murex and the trumpet shell for about thirty days at the rising of the Dog star, and the scallop at about the same period."
"As to the property qualification, no absolute rule can be laid down, but we must see what is the highest qualification sufficiently comprehensive to secure that the number of those who have the rights of citizens exceeds the number of those excluded."
"All animals that have hairs on the body have lashes on the eyelids; but birds and animals with scale like plates, being hairless, have none."
"But when the minor is negative, there will be no deduction."
"Nor indeed was Socrates right in asserting that courage was knowledge."
"By arranging them thus we shall be able to employ all the various kinds of oratory according to the rules of rhetoric."
"If, then, the sensibles denominated co ordinates though in different provinces of sense (e.g. I call sweet and white co ordinates though in different provinces) stand yet more aloof, and differ more, from one another than do any sensibles in the same province; while sweet differs from white even more than black does from white, it is still less conceivable that one should discern them simultaneously than sensibles which are in the same province."
"They may be appointed either by vote or by lot."
"Again, since any three given straight lines can be combined to form a triangle, a triangle can also be formed by combining three given indivisible lines."
", whence come the sayings 'like to like', 'birds of a feather flock together', and so on; others on the contrary say 'two of a trade never agree'."
"But the pig does not shed its hair, either because the moisture in it undergoes no change or because its nourishment is properly concocted; for whenever any cause is present to make it shed its hair, the fat is sufficient to prevent it."
"Ross omits 'the matter and'."
"For the same arguments, or most of them, will apply."
"Hence, whenever its movement is actual, if the soul perceives this in its own right, it appears to occur as a mere thought or image; but if the soul perceives it qua related to something else, then just as when one contemplates the painting in the picture as being a likeness, and without having seen the actual Coriscus, contemplates it as a likeness of Coriscus, and in Retaining to pathos."
"For sometimes the pores into which a body sinks are not empty (a wet sponge, for instance, has its pores full)."
"For the now is an extremity of the past (no part of the future being on this side of it), and again of the future (no part of the past being on that side of it): it is, we maintain, a limit of both."
"Each of the constitutions may be seen to involve friendship just in so far as it involves justice."
"Of the other legs, the hinder are bigger than the middle pair, both to aid in walking and also that the insect, when it takes flight, may spring more easily from the ground."
"For example, a body is called both equal and unequal, and a number is called both equal and unequal, and so is a time; so also with the others we spoke of, each is called both equal and unequal."
"The elephant is not as some used to assert, but it bends its legs and settles down; only that in consequence of its weight it cannot bend its legs on both sides simultaneously, but falls into a recumbent position on one side or the other,"
"If to this there be a clear answer, eg that the process is demonstration or division, or some other known method, many difficulties and hesitations still beset us with what facts"
"It is clear, then, that for the changing thing the contraries will be states of rest."
"No oviparous creature has an epiglottis over the windpipe, but these animals so manage the opening and shutting of the windpipe as not to allow any solid substance to get down into the lung."
"that some of them are activities belonging to a bad nature"
"and in what way there is not; and in what cases there is and in what cases there is not; and again in how many ways something is called a definition, and in what way it proves what a thing is and in what way it does not, and in what cases it does and in what cases it does not; and again how it is related to demonstration and in what way it is possible for them to be of the same thing and in what way it is not possible."
"Why, then, is this form of change necessarily ceaseless?"
"If this is accepted, everything that is in motion must be moved by something."
"Stags shed their horns annually, in the month of Thargelion; after shedding, they conceal themselves, it is said, during the daytime, and, to avoid the flies, hide in thick copses; during this time, until they have grown their horns, they feed at night time."
"Thus (e.g.) inasmuch as a man and a horse are the same in kind, and it is not always a property of a horse to stand still by his own initiative, it will not be a property of a man to move by his own initiative; for to stand still and to move by one's own initiative are the same in kind, because they belong to each of them in so far as each is an animal."
"The question 'why', then, is answered by reference to the matter, to the form, and to the primary moving cause."
"The current division is absurd."
"That if one thing has happened which naturally happens after another, or with a view to which that other happens, then that other (that which happens first, or happens with a view to Frag."
"This animal is fattened on barley, millet, figs, acorns, wild pears, and cucumbers."
"Socrates, then, the elder, thought the knowledge of excellence to be the end, and used to inquire what is justice, what bravery and each of the parts of virtue; and his conduct was reasonable, for he thought all the excellences to be kinds of knowledge, so that to know justice and to be just came simultaneously; for the moment that we have learned geometry or building we are builders and geometers."
"it is it which is the operative force."
"If everything that is in motion is moved by something that is in motion, either this is an accidental attribute of the things (so that each of them moves something while being itself in motion, but not because it is itself in motion) or it belongs to them in their own right."
"After being cut open along its entire length it continues to breathe for a considerable time; a very slight motion goes on in the region of the heart, and, while contraction is especially manifested in the neighbourhood of the ribs, a similar motion is more or less discernible over the whole body."
"With those that depend on the form it is because of the likeness of expression."
"Each sense then is relative to its particular group of sensible qualities: it is found in a sense organ as such and discriminates the differences which exist within that group; eg sight discriminates white and black, taste sweet and bitter, and so in all cases."
"As, in dialectic, for instance, it may be argued that what is not is, on the ground that what is not is what is not; or that the unknown can be known, on the ground that it can be known to be unknown: so also in rhetoric a spurious enthymeme may be based on the confusion of some particular probability with absolute probability."
"And this accounts for the fact that the sponge is at its best when found in deep water close to shore; for owing to the depth of the water they are well protected against both conditions."
"A similar squi occurs also in one whose eyes do not correspond, causing him to see double; but this is due to the position of the vision, because it is not in the middle of the eye."
"This habit appears due to some internal pain: at all events, the gut is so slender and weak that, if you strike the animal ever so softly, it is apt to break asunder, though the hide of the animal remains sound and uninjured."
"For the case is the same as that of sleepers."
"The same Ross excises the passage in brackets."
"There are two chief motives which induce men to attack tyrannies hatred and contempt Hatred of tyrants is inevitable, and contempt is also a frequent cause of their destruction."
"For it seems that the same differentia cannot be used of two genera neither of which contains the other."
"that which grows and that which increases it in the same place; and this too is impossible."
"Also we must examine all that are for the purpose of gripping or knitting together, eg the patella over the knee; and why other parts have no such bone."
"Is the affirmation contrary to the negation, or the affirmation to the affirmation the statement that every man is just contrary to the statement 'no man is just', or 'every man is just' contrary to 'every man is unjust'?"
"Some also are capable of giving or receiving instruction of receiving it from one another or from man: those that have the faculty of hearing not merely of hearing sounds but of distinguishing the differences of signs."
"Causes are spoken of in many senses, and even of those which are of the same kind"
"For there is something of which each of these is predicated, so that its being is different from that of each of the predicates; for the predicates other than substance are predicated of substance, while substance is predicated of matter."
", if A belong to, and is a middle term for them, and for and A there are other middle terms, and for these others, is it possible for these to go on ad infinitum, or impossible?"
"Therefore one kind of substance can be defined and formulated, ie the composite kind, whether it be the object of sense or of reason; but the primary parts of which this consists cannot be defined, since a definitory formula predicates something of something, and one part of the definition must play the part of matter and the other that of form."
"To such animals, therefore, as have molars this lateral motion is of service; but to those animals that have none it would be quite useless, and they are therefore invariably without it."
"Of fishes, some swim in shoals together and are friendly to one another; such as do not so swim are enemies."
"Again, if two contraries are equally liable to occur naturally in a thing, and the thing has been defined through the one, clearly it has not been defined; otherwise there will be more than one definition of the same thing; for how is it any more a definition to define it through this one than through the other, seeing that both are equally liable to occur naturally in it?"
"And some possess appendages to the gut, but no animal that does not have teeth in both jaws has a straight gut."
"What then will this common element be?"
"It could not move infinitely; for to traverse an infinite is impossible, and impossibilities do not happen."
"Furthermore, animals differ from one another in the size of their mouths."
"But the semen of the male differs in that it contains a principle within itself of such a kind as to set up movements also in the embryo and to concoct thoroughly the ultimate nourishment, whereas the secretion of the female contains material alone."
"Our point, then, must be proved from the indefinite nature of the particular statement."
"Let this be enough on all those points concerning the voice which have not been previously discussed in the treatise on sensation and in that on the soul."
"Furthermore, a quantity is determinate, and that which is determinate is a quantity; therefore when a thing appears not to be determinate, it appears to be as it were infinite, because that which is of a nature to be determined, if it is not so, is infinite; so that what appears not to be determined necessarily appears in a sense unlimited."
"Everything which has a function exists for its function."
"are bent backwards owing to one's desire to support oneself, but in going downhill the thighs are bent forwards because the body has a tendency to fall forwards."
"this is because it appears on the dark cloud and at night."
"Of the rulers there are, as has been stated, two kinds."
"Or that not to use the laws is as bad as to have no laws at all."
"For the one view generates number from the universally predicated plurality, and not from a particular plurality; and the other generates it from a particular plurality, but the first; for is said to be a first plurality."
"Were this otherwise, it would be difficult to see why the art of getting wealth is a part of the management of a household and the art of medicine not; for surely the members of a household must have health just as they must have life or any other necessity."
"For they require some covering to protect them from injury, and require, moreover, that this covering See Iliad Odyssey."
"This last is the only kind of immovable thing of which I use the term 'being at rest'; for rest is contrary to motion, so that rest will be privation of motion in that which is capable of admitting motion."
"This excess again may be of two kinds, either quantitative or qualitative; for all substances are not equally amendable to concoction."
"For all animals that have horns, the sheep for instance, the ox, the goat, the deer, and the like, have several stomachs."
"And to say that they are patterns and the other things share in them is to use empty words and poetical metaphors."
"But we must not forget that things of which the underlying principles differ in kind, one of them being first, another second, another third, have, when regarded in this relation, nothing, or hardly anything, worth mentioning in common."
"The motion of everything that is in process of locomotion is either rotatory or rectilinear or a compound of the two: consequently, if one of the former two is not continuous, that which is composed of them both cannot be continuous either."
"For since the incontinent man is blameworthy, the subjectmatter of his incontinence ought also to be blameworthy."
"Testaceans, such as scallops and all the oyster family, and crustaceans, such as the crayfish family, are best when with spawn."
"For the stronger they are, the more power they claim, and having this object in view, they themselves select those of the other classes who are to be admitted to the government; but, not being as yet strong enough to rule without the law, they make the law represent their wishes."
"Again, lack of self control and softness are not the same thing."
"We have now to consider excellence and vice, the noble and the base, since these are the objects of praise and blame."
"If then the genus absolutely does not exist apart from the species which it as genus includes, or if it exists but exists as matter (for the voice is genus and matter, but its differentiae make the species, ie the letters, out of it), clearly the definition is the formula which comprises the differentiae."
"If the gift was not of this sort, but was made on conditions, it is no doubt preferable that the return made should be one that seems fair to both parties, but if this cannot be achieved, it would seem not only necessary that the person who gets the first service should fix the reward, but also just; for if the other gets in return the equivalent of the advantage the beneficiary has received, or the price he would have paid for the pleasure, he will have got what is fair as from the other."
"For constructive purposes, on the other hand, see if he has rendered what is found in the subject as a property of the subject; for then what has been stated not to be a property will be a property, if it is predicated only of the things of which it has been stated to be a property."
"the copper is so bright, pure, and free from rust that it cannot be distinguished in colour from gold; moreover that among the cups of Darius there are certain goblets, and these not inconsiderable in number, as to which, except by their smell, one could not otherwise decide whether they are of copper or gold."
"They do not restrict it to the bodies which act and suffer action; but combination too, they say, takes place only between bodies whose pores are in reciprocal symmetry."
"Therefore both natural science and mathematics must be regarded as parts of Wisdom."
"for no horse, bird, or fish is happy, nor anything the name of which does not imply some share of a divine element in its nature; but in virtue of some other sort of participation in good things some have a better existence, some a worse."
"Also, if everything is the same as itself and different from anything else, inasmuch as they are the same not as other things but as themselves, and also different from themselves, the same things must be both the same as and different from themselves."
"Considerations not general but proper to the subject also show it to be impossible that what was formerly eternal should later be destroyed or that what formerly was not should later be eternal."
"For the sun as it approaches or recedes, obviously causes dissipation and condensation and so gives rise to generation and destruction."
"They fight with one another and with wasps."
"Rhetoric may be defined as the faculty of observing in any given case the available means of persuasion."
"It is superfluous further to distinguish actions according to the doers' ages, states, or the like; it is of course true that, for instance, young men do have hot tempers and strong appetites; still, Excised by Kassel."
"The usual subject for the introductions to speeches of display is some piece of praise or censure."
"Truth then may be found in signs whatever their kind, but they have the differences we have stated."
"So the latter are not visible to them at all, while objects near at hand are not seen in their proper places, but appear to revolve in a circle and not to be near or far, because the circular motion makes it less possible for the sight to be directed towards distant objects; for it is difficult to do two contrary things at the same time."
"that of which it is the matter."
"In the case, then, of names that are used literally one is bound to answer either without qualification or by drawing a distinction: it is the tacit understandings implied in our statements, eg in answer to questions that are not put clearly but truncatedly, upon which refutation depends."
"So if the sight is to accord with nature, the distance between the eyes ought to be as small as possible, for then it will travel most directly forward."
"Is it because the cold imprisons the heat within?"
"That it is these which cause harshness is shown by the fact that wines are less soft if water is added or if they have been allowed to stand a long time on the lees."
"Why is it that in ascending a slope our knees feel the strain, and in descending our thighs?"
"That the male and female are the principles of generation has been previously stated, as also what is their power and their essence."
"He should give an account of what he receives and of what he spends (a practice which has been adopted by some tyrants); for then he will seem to be a steward of the public rather than a tyrant; nor need he fear that, while he is the lord of the city, he will ever be in want of money."
"they think they not merely wish to be, but are friends."
"The necessary beginning to our inquiry is a statement of the difficulties about these points."
"And here we cannot apply the same solution: we cannot argue that is at at a sectional point of time and has not come to be or ceased to be there."
"When they protested, he told them that the merchants and retailers would all sell their goods on the same terms as before."
"And in whatever way that which holds them together is one, so too will the whole be one,"
"Thus Iphicrates, in the case against Harmodius, said, 'if before doing the deed I had bargained that, if I did it, I should have a statue, you would have given me one."
"Further, if God and the One do not move, just because the many move by passing into one another, why should not God also move into something else?"
"This is especially plain in man; the hair gets thicker as time goes on, and some go bald on the front of the head; children indeed do not go bald, nor do women, but men do so by the time their age is advancing."
"To postulate a difference of nature in the simple bodies according as they are more or less distant from their proper places is unreasonable."
"Thunder, too, splits things not by its noise but because the wind that strikes the object and makes the noise is ejected simultaneously."
"Now it is impossible for one body to be hotter than another in all these different fashions."
"Further, owing to their being asleep, fish may be captured by torchlight."
"Their sexual organs therefore contract, because the heat has left the surface of the body; hence also those who are greatly frightened have internal rumblings."
"because they consist of earth, have no sensation."
"The 'now' in one sense is the same, in another it is not the same."
"whatever it may be, of a spatial magnitude or of a thing that has magnitude, and to the end of each thing (and of this nature is that towards which the movement and the action are not that from which they are, though sometimes it is both, that from which and that to which the movement is and that for the sake of which), and to the substance of each thing, and the essence of each; for this is the limit of knowledge; and if of knowledge, of the thing also."
"For a man has an unpleasant odour he is left."
"Friendly agreement is not about all things, but only about things that may be done by those in agreement and about what relates to their common life."
"Is it because the objects of mathematics exist by abstraction, while the first principles of these other subjects come from experience, and because young men have no conviction about the latter but merely use the proper language, while the essence of mathematical objects is plain enough to them?"
"Accordingly he brought it down to the markets and sold it, and thus gained an abundance of money."
"Men think that acting unjustly is in their power, and therefore that being just is easy."
"Again, if the capacity is present prior to the activity, it will be present for all time, even while the thing was as yet ungenerated and non existent but capable of being generated."
"Do you know what I am going to ask you?' '"
"For an effect is most apt to be produced in the neighbourhood of its source, and the source of winds moves with the sun."
", it follows that it is not possible that that which cannot have changed should be changing to that to which it cannot have changed."
"On the other hand, the very poor, who are in the opposite extreme, are too degraded."
"But even to share in speech of a casual kind does not make the case different."
"Since, then, the present inquiry does not aim at theoretical knowledge like the others (for we are inquiring not in order to know what excellence is, but in order to become good, since otherwise our inquiry would have been of no use), we must examine the nature of actions, namely how we ought to do them; for these determine also the nature of the states that are produced, as we have said."
"Further, just as in arguments about mathematics objections that involve first principles do not affect the mathematician and the other sciences are in similar case so, too, objections involving the point that we have just raised do not affect the physicist; for it is a hypothesis that nature is a principle of motion."
"The reason of this is that their nature, because of its imperfection, oviposits as it were before the right time, as if the grub, while still growing in size, were a soft egg."
"Is it for the reason that Anaxagoras gives, namely, that in the day time the air, heated by the sun, hisses and roars, but at night it is still because the heat has ceased, and that when there is no noise hearing is easier?"
"Ross, Parva Naturalia, Clarendon Press, Oxford, arranging a given list of subjects according to the mnemonic rule."
"The spontaneous on the other hand is found both in the beasts and in many inanimate objects."
"An immediate deductive principle I call a posit if one cannot prove it"
"When the spawn is small, the fish is hard to catch, but it is easily caught when the spawn gets large, as the fish is then infested by its parasite."
"It follows therefore that fear is felt by those who believe something to be likely to happen to them, at the hands of particular persons, in a particular form, and at a particular time."
", seeing is to the sense of sight, hearing to the auditory sense, and so on with the other senses severally; while all are accompanied by a common power, in virtue whereof a person perceives that he sees or hears (for, assuredly, it is not by sight that one sees that he sees; and it is not by taste, or sight, or both together that one discerns, and that sweet things are different from white things, but by a part common to all the organs of sense; for there is one sensory function, and the controlling sensory organ is one, though differing as a faculty of perception in relation to each genus,.g., sound or colour); and since this subsists in association chiefly with the faculty of touch (for this can exist apart from all the other organs of sense, but none of them can exist apart from it a subject of which we have treated in our speculations concerning the soul); it is therefore evident that waking and sleeping are an affection of this."
"Omitting protasis amesos."
"Babylon, we may say, is like this, and every city that has the compass of a nation rather than a city; Babylon, they say, had been taken for three days before some part of the inhabitants become aware of the fact."
"It flies up to the she goat and sucks its milk, from which habit it derives its name; it is said that, after it has sucked the teat of the animal, the teat dries up and the animal goes blind."
"These creatures never discharge the pigment in its entirety; and after a discharge the pigment accumulates again."
"But all sweet foods are nutriment, and the body derives a large amount of nutriment from a small quantity of them."
"Other difficulties may be solved by another punctuation; eg in Empedocles, aipsa de thnet' ephyonto, ta prin mathon athanat' einai zora te prin kekreto."
"It does not come out with the egg as the cord does with animals; for when its egg is perfected the shell forms all round it."
"The beccafico appears about autumn, and the blackcap as soon as autumn has ended."
"If it is just to do those things which the law ordains to be done, he who does not do these is committing injustice; and if when he does not do them to him to whom the law commands, he is doing an injustice to that person, but the law commands one to be temperate, to possess property, to take care of one's body, and all other such things, then he who does not do these things is doing an injustice to himself."
"The potentiality, being, as matter, universal and indefinite, deals with the universal and indefinite; but the actuality, being definite, deals with a definite object, being a 'this', it deals with a 'this'."
"Moreover, look at it from the point of view of greater and equal degrees, in all the ways in which it is possible to establish a result by comparing two and two together."
"A second strange peculiarity which distinguishes birds from all other animals is their beak."
"For those who lack full mastery of a branch of knowledge and are easily changed are not said to be in a state of knowledge, though they are of course in some condition, a better or a worse, in regard to that knowledge."
"That condition can harm women who are of good constitution with regard to conception, but it is not a disease; it is the sort of condition which will right itself even without treatment, provided that the woman herself does not do anything to exacerbate it."
"For things whose account corresponding to their name is one and the same, are synonymous; if, then, the definition applies in a like manner to the whole range of the homonym, it does not define any one of the objects described by the term."
"For no boy ever gets bald, no woman, and no castrated man."
"only that, in regard to Iliad."
"For if A belongs to every and to every, then A belongs to some."
"When the vapour is frozen before it has condensed to water again it is hoar frost; and this appears in winter and is commoner in cold places."
"(That is why a drop of wine does not combine with ten thousand gallons of water; for its form is dissolved, and it is changed so as to merge in the total volume of water.)"
"Nor can a middle element be such a principle as some thinkers suppose that Air is transformed both into Fire and into Water, and Water both into Air and into Earth, while the end elements are not further transformed into one another."
"You can discover what has been judged to be expedient by judges of repute by considerations such as the following: '"
"And ordering them as one should will be achieved if you take the first term; and this will be achieved by taking the one which follows all the others but is not followed by them all (for of necessity there will be some such term)."
"This implies the view that soul is identical with what produces movement in an imals."
"The bad may be friends to one another on the ground both of usefulness and of pleasure; but some deny them to be friends, because there is not the primary friendship between them; for a bad man will injure a bad man, and those who are injured by one another do not love one another; but in fact they do love, only not with the primary friendship."
"In dealing with prejudice, one class of argument is that whereby you can Sophocles, Antigone Euripides, Iphigenia at Tauris."
"ta de phobera phobon."
"In some Testacea, as was said in the first treatise, the organ which is called the tongue is of considerable strength; and in sea snails there are also two teeth, just as in the Crustacea."
"For all excrement comes from food, and a greater amount of food produces a greater quantity of excrement."
"Objections may be urged against all the aspirants to political power."
"What, however, is the cause of its existence in sanguineous animals is manifest on reflection."
"But when the semen from the male (in those animals which emit semen) has entered, it puts into form the purest part of the female residue (for the greater part of the menstrual flow is useless, being fluid, as is the most fluid part of the male secretion, ie in a single emission, the earlier discharge being in most cases apt to be infertile rather than the later, having less vital heat through want of concoction, whereas that which is concocted is thick and of a more material nature)."
"As to Peace and War, he must know the extent of the military strength of his country, both actual and potential, and also the nature of that actual and potential strength; and further, what wars his country has waged, and how it has waged them."
"The cause of one's sometimes recollecting and sometimes not, though starting from the same point, is, that from the same starting point a movement can be made in several directions, as, for instance, from to or to."
"In the Hellespont the North wind, blowing from its upper end, masses together many clouds, which Hellespontias (the East wind) drives towards Attica and the islands, being thus provided with material; for most clouds come round from the north."
"For the pressure of this digit is applied from below upwards, while the rest act from above downwards; an arrangement which is essential, if the grasp is to be firm and hold like a tight clamp."
"So much for molluscs."
", suppose white to be defined as colour mingled with fire; for what is bodiless cannot be mingled with body, so that colour cannot be mingled with fire, whereas white does exist."
"Now the latter alternative appears to be the right one both a priori and in view of the facts."
"but the relation cannot be converted, then must follow and the relation cannot be converted."
"Any Omitting kai xyla."
"For the self indulgent man, on the other hand, the particular acts are voluntary (for he does them with craving and desire), but the whole state is less so; for no one craves to be self indulgent."
"And of those which live only until they have produced seed why are the majority annuals, while horse parsley produces its fruit in the second year and having done so dries up?"
"And those who give them their posts, and beat them if they retreat, do the same, and so do those who draw them up with trenches or something of the sort behind them; all of these apply compulsion."
"Since nothing accidental is prior to the essential, neither are accidental causes prior."
"Others, again, say that the earth, which lies at the centre, is rolled, and thus in motion, about the axis of the whole heaven."
"Neither upwards, therefore, nor downwards will one thing be said to belong to one thing."
"These contribute nothing, as the objects of mathematics contribute nothing."
"Now a thin voice is not deep, and it is impossible to emit a small and feeble sound that is deep, but such a sound is necessarily shrill."
"Some diseases are caused by heat, others by moisture; those which are caused by heat are cured by moisture, and those which are due to moisture are cured by heat, for heat dries up moisture."
"Let A belong to the whole of, but to no, neither let belong to."
"Sows for the most part live for fifteen years, but some fall little short of the twenty."
"Further, it is obvious that all those who commit theft in places the entrance to which is open to any one who wishes to come are bad men, and so, if they are allowed to live, do not desire to have the semblance of honest men even for the future advantage which they can gain from it, regarding it as useless to pretend to be honest in the eyes of those who know their real character; they therefore continue henceforward to be openly wicked."
"Heraclitus implied his adherence to it when he declared that if all existing things were turned into smoke, the nose would be the organ to discern them with."
"In the Cephalopoda there are two teeth, enclosing what is called the mouth; and inside this mouth is a flesh like substance which represents a tongue and serves for the discrimination of pleasant and unpleasant food."
"Some think that a very moderate amount of excellence is enough, but set no limit to their desires for wealth, property, power, reputation, and the like."
"But how these principles can be brought together under the causes we have named has not been clearly and articulately stated by them; they seem, however, to range the elements under the head of matter; for out of these as immanent parts they say substance is composed and moulded."
"Thus also the liquid nutriment in the hair decays because it is not concocted, and what is called greyness results."
"For the object of desire is the pleasant."
"Let us now mention a point which presents a certain difficulty both to those who believe in the Ideas and to those who do not, and which was stated at the beginning among the problems."
"Things are prior and more familiar in two ways; for it is not the same to be prior by nature and prior in relation to us, nor to be more familiar and more familiar to us."
"For is true because was not in A; and false because if it were true the conclusion too would be true, but it was false."
"Such, for instance, would also be the definition of the soul, assuming it to be stated as a self moving number; for the soul is just what is self moving, as Plato defined it."
"so, because he has this part, the earthy matter is forced into the bladder (and so chamber pots become discoloured by it) and, owing to the heat in that region, it becomes concocted and thickens still more and remains there and increases owing to the narrowness of the urethra; for the earthy sediment, being unable to make its way out easily, coheres together and forms a gall stone."
"Since then to fight against neighbours is an evil, and to fight against the Thebans is to fight against neighbours, it is clear that to fight against the Thebans is an evil."
"Any sort of insult (and there are many) may stir up anger, and when men are angry, they commonly act out of revenge, and not from ambition."
", for if she emits it outside the uterus this must then draw it back again into itself if it is to be mixed with the semen of the male."
"These views are practically the same as that of Heraclitus; for that which says that all things are true and all are false also makes each of these statements separately, so that since they are impossible, the double statement must be impossible too."
"And this is no different from seeking whether there is an account of it; and if this is, we say that that is too."
"When we are ourselves describing in a public speech some past event or explaining the events of the moment or predicting what will happen in the future, we must do each of these things briefly, clearly, and convincingly."
"They are the only fish which the Carthaginians do not export; on account of their excellence for food, they consume them themselves."
"And inequality is thought to be, and is, justice; neither is this for all, but only for unequals."
"And plurality in itself is different from infinite plurality; what sort of plurality, then, is the element which co operates with the one?"
"For, if the parallelogram be completed by drawing a line from, the interior parallelogram will be similar to the whole parallelogram; and will be on the diagonal at the point where the sides meet; and the side will describe the side; and the point describes the diagonal."
"In plants, then, the female is not separated from the male, but in those animals in which it is separated the female needs the male besides."
"itself, to see which is nearer to, or further from, the mean; for instance, in the case of liberality, whether prodigality or illiberality is further from it."
"(in the one case the fire goes out, in the other it continues alive for a considerable time)."
"Privation and possession are spoken of in connexion with the same thing, for example sight and blindness in connexion with the eye."
"But the pole, and the centre of the circle, and the centre of that circle (namely which now determines the rising of the sun are on the same line."
"For if belongs to every, and belongs to every, then will belong to every S; but we assumed that it did not."
"The period of gestation with the female is two years; and only one young animal is produced at a time, in other words it is uniparous."
"And if, when one asks the question simply, he adds the contradictories, he is not answering the question."
"For springing from the perfect friendship which exists among the good there are also these forms of friendship, that which refers to the pleasant and that which refers to the useful."
"(That is why also the semen of some men who emit a large quantity of excreti is said to smell of the water in which fish have been washed.)"
"We may begin with the kinds."
"I mean birth, wealth, power, and their opposites in fact, good fortune and ill fortune."
"it is opposed to the one."
"Further, in the sense in which the man who acts unjustly is unjust only and not bad all round, it is not possible to treat oneself unjustly (this is different from the former sense; the unjust man in one sense of the term is wicked in a particularized way just as the coward is, not in the sense of being wicked all round, so that his unjust act does not manifest wickedness in general)."
"For the persons who possess a retentive memory are not identical with those who excel in power of recollection; indeed, as a rule, slow people have a better memory, whereas those who are quick witted and clever are better at recollecting."
"Now this cannot take place in the case of plants, nor indeed in the case of certain animals, for not all breathe."
"(It is the same with coming to rest.)"
"and there is no hard and fast rule regarding them."
"Of birds, some take a dust bath, some take a water bath, and some take neither the one bath nor the other."
"That is why a body's nutrition continues so long as it is kept alive (even when it is diminishing), though not its growth; and why nutrition, though the same as growth, is yet different from it in its being."
"The infinite and the void and all similar things are said to exist potentially and actually in a different sense from that in which many other things are said so to exist, eg that which sees or walks or is seen."
"In some trees too, when they are weak, the seed fails, in the pine for example, and the palm."
"For the worse with a less good is in a kind of way equal to the better with a greater."
"And they say that Homer also evidently had this opinion, because he made Hector, when he was unconscious from the blow, lie 'thinking other thoughts', which implies that even those who are bereft of thought have thoughts, though not the same."
"If the embryo be cut open, then, as with quadrupeds, such internal organs as it is furnished with, as for instance the liver, are found to be large and supplied with blood."
"In the order of nature, deduction through the middle term is prior and more familiar, but deduction through induction is clearer to us."
"For all of them after the grub stage become immovable and their integument dries round them, and after this the latter bursts and there comes forth as from an egg an animal perfected in its third stage, and of these the winged sort are more numerous than those which walk."
"For that which is nearest to the best must of necessity be better, and that which is further from the mean worse, if we are judging absolutely and not relatively to given conditions: I say 'relatively to given conditions', since a particular government may be preferable, but another form may be better for some people."
"If we accept the hypothesis of juxtaposition, we must assume not only invisible magnitude, but also imperceptible time, in order that the arrival of the movements may be unperceived, and that the colour may appear to be one because they seem to be simultaneous."
"That being so, the slower will in the same now have traversed a distance less than say."
"Birds of prey feed on any animal or bird that they may catch, except that they never touch one of their own genus, whereas fishes often devour members actually of their own species."
"The two statements made regarding him are quite true; the one that he is especially afraid of fire, as Homer pictures him in the line 'and glowing torches, which, though fierce, he dreads,' and the other, that he keeps a steady eye upon the hunter who hits him, and flings himself upon him."
"As the law now stands, a man may bestow his heiress on any one whom he pleases, and, if he die intestate, the privilege of giving her away descends to his heir."
"Those of the orators, on the other hand, look amateurish enough when they pass into the hands of a reader."
"Of matter some is the object of reason, some of sense, and part of the formula is always matter and part is actuality, eg the circle is a figure which is plane."
"For the present let it be simply stated as a fact, that the menstrual fluids of the female are also residual matter."
"A plant does not require sleep for many reasons, for it is placed and planted in the earth and attached to it and has no movement of itself; nor has it any definite bounds to its parts, nor does it possess sensation or voluntary motion, or a perfect soul; indeed it has only part of a soul."
"Wind is also called breath, a word used in another sense of the vital and generative substance which is found in plants and living creatures, and permeates all things;"
"For man is generated from man; and thus it is because the parent is such and such that the generation of the child is thus and so."
"And of two things that which stands less in need of other things is the greater good, since it is more self sufficing."
"Almost all apparent solecisms depend upon occasions when the inflection denotes neither a masculine nor a feminine object but a neuter."
"Since, then, the Cephalopoda have no other instruments with which to convey anything to themselves from without, than either feet, as in some species or proboscises as in others, they are provided with these to serve as hands for offence and defence and other uses."
"Is it because all plants of this kind are exceedingly full of moisture?"
"Difficulties might be raised as to the utility of these qualities of mind."
"One country also differs from another in these respects, and one water from another, for the same reasons."
"What is persuasive is persuasive to someone; and something is persuasive Kassel regards this passage as a later addition to the text by himself."
"And the number must have something in virtue of which it is one thing, while our opponents cannot say if it is one (for either it is not one but a sort of heap, or if it is, we ought to say what it is that makes one out of many); and the definition is one, but similarly they cannot say what makes it one."
"(By the power of selfnutrition we mean that part of the soul which is common to plants and animals:"
"Thus (e.g.) he who renders as a property of man, being an animal capable of receiving knowledge, both intends, and by his language indicates, the property that belongs by nature, and so being an animal capable of receiving knowledge will not be upset or shown in that respect not to be a property of man."
"Does it belong then to the same or to different sciences to know each severally?"
"For on their upper surface they have a shell, and they attach themselves to the rocks, and so after a manner become bivalved by virtue of this borrowed protection."
"It is evident, therefore, if we consider them in general, that every one is by nature such as to come to be out of every one; and when we come to consider them severally, it is not difficult to see the manner in which their transformation is effected."
"If, then, it is characteristic of men of practical wisdom to have deliberated well, excellence in deliberation will be correctness with regard to what conduces to the end of which practical wisdom is the true apprehension."
"And first let us define what we mean by holding of every case and what by in itself and what by universally."
"(for, they say, there is nothing to prevent every statement from being like the statement 'the diagonal of a square is commensurate with the side'), on the other hand the theory that everything is true."
"The very nature indeed of a riddle is this, to describe a fact in an impossible combination of words (which cannot be done with a combination of other names, but can be done with a combination of metaphors); eg 'I saw a man glue brass on another with fire', and the like."
"from abusive language, because this is the source of the fight."
"Further, under different constitutions, should the magistrates be the same or different?"
"Thus it is not necessary for one or the other of them to belong to everything capable of receiving them, but only to things to which the one belongs by nature, and in these cases it must be definitely the one and not as chance has it."
"Is it because in the former owing to their desire, and in the latter owing to their mutilation, the upper parts of the body become drier than they ought to be, and this is most noticeable in those organs which have delicate work to do, such as the eye?"
"Hence even such things make men prouder; for they are honoured by some for having them; but in truth the good man alone is to be honoured; he, however, who has both advantages is thought the more worthy of honour."
"Again, when the sun causes the moisture to rise, this is like fire heating water."
"It is the same with wild animals."
"But this opinion has arisen because the young of the weasel are very small like those of the other fissipeds, of which we shall speak later, and because they often carry the young about in their mouths."
"For if the principles must be universal, what is derived from them must also be universal, as in demonstrations; and if this is so, there will be nothing capable of separate existence"
"So long as there is a flow of milk the menstrual discharges do not take place as a general rule, though the discharge has been known to occur during the period of suckling."
"An account is said to have as many members as the term defined when the number of the elements compounded is the same as the number of names and verbs in the account."
"As we said, all these things must be understood to be formed in one sense of necessity, but in another sense not of necessity but for a final cause."
"Nor is change either to or from these rather than to or from their opposites."
"the last two mean that both attributes are accidents of the same thing; the first that the attribute is an accident of that which is; while the musical is a man means that musical is an accident of man."
"and if it does not belong to every, and since if terms are assumed such that it belongs to none, no deduction follows (this has already been stated), it is clear that this arrangement of terms will not afford a deduction"
"Now such a thing is most likely to happen in persons in these conditions, when the heat engendered by sleep is added; for the body requires a slight impulse only, which must be internal and not external."
"For what holds by chance is neither necessary nor for the most part, but what comes about apart from these; and demonstration is of one or other of these."
"Starting from this argument and from the observation that their speeds, as measured by their distances, are in the same ratios as musical concordances, they assert that the sound given forth by the circular movement of the stars is a harmony."
"And the remark that 'if each individual among you ought to think of his own city's reputation, you ought all to think of the reputation of Greece as a whole'."
"Nevertheless, some men turn every quality or art into a means of getting wealth; this they conceive to be the end, and to the promotion of the end they think all things must contribute."
"So that even so the points must be in contact, in so far as the line must be continuous."
"If, then, a man has theory without experience, and knows the universal but does not know the individual included in this, he will often fail to cure; for it is the individual that is to be cured."
"But in that case everybody else, being excluded from power, will be dishonoured."
"(for they belong to it as line), and two right angles belong to triangle as triangle (for the triangle is in itself equal to two right angles).)"
"So we must say the opposite of what the ancients said."
"Their reason is that the discharge of both is attended by holding the breath, but this is a common feature of all cases when it is necessary to move anything, because strength arises through holding the breath."
"Nor is a friend made except through time; they do indeed wish to be friends, and such a state easily passes muster as friendship."
"Of these two kinds that which is for the sake of pleasure is the more like friend ship, when both parties get the same things from each other and delight in each other or in the same things, as in the friendships of the young; for generosity is more found in such friendships."
"eg that as knowledge and ignorance of contraries is the same, so too perception of contraries is the same; or vice versa, that since the perception is the same, so is the knowledge also."
"This, then, is the first principle and cause of male and female, and this is the part of the body in which it resides."
"These are naturally two in number."
"There are others if something is added to 'not man' as a sort of subject, thus: See Prior Analytics I. (a) 'a not man is just' (b) 'a not man is not just' (d) 'a not man is not not just' (c) '"
"being violent has a deleterious effect upon the body."
"Seeing that of relatives some are of necessity found in, or about, the things in relation to which they happen at any time to be used (e.g. composition and state and balance; for in nothing else can the aforesaid terms possibly be found except in the things in relation to which they are used), while others need not be found in the things in relation to which they are used at any time, though they still may be (e.g. if the soul is an object of knowledge, for it is quite possible that the soul should possess knowledge of itself, but it is not necessary for knowledge"
"But first we must consider in what the good life consists and how it is to be acquired, whether all who receive the epithet 'happy' become so by nature (as we become tall, short, or of different complexions), or by teaching (happiness being a sort of science), or by some sort of discipline for men acquire many qualities neither by nature nor by teaching but by habituation, bad qualities if they are habituated to the bad, good if to the good."
"For as man is the only animal that stands erect, he is also the only one that looks directly in front; and the only one whose voice is emitted in that direction."
"And she will make this manifest from the beginning by her unfailing regard for the common welfare, novice though she may be in such matters."
"Now, in the first place, they make the mistake already noticed."
"The process of concoction therefore will be reversed and the heat will cause it to continue, and the plant will be seen to have a colour intermediate between white and black."
"; for the one would have the offenders suffer for what they have done; the other would have them cease to exist."
"Every body is necessarily to be classed either as simple or as composite; the infinite body, therefore, will be either simple or composite."
"For God is to us a law, impartial, admitting not of correction or change, and better, I think, and surer than those which are engraved upon tablets."
"Furthermore all those who live towards the north have fine, reddish hair."
"The individual is liable to be overcome by anger or by some other passion, and then his judgement is necessarily perverted; but it is hardly to be supposed that a great number of persons would all get into a passion and go wrong at the same moment."
"It is impossible to penetrate the transparent bodies at their contacts or through their pores if every pore be full."
"Maxims differ from enthymemes in that enthymemes can be constructed only from contrarieties, whereas maxims can be enunciated both in connexion with contrarieties and also by themselves."
"If then it is assumed that belongs to every, and the conclusion is retained, will belong to some C; for we obtain the first figure and"
"Similarly with the flesh and other parts of the body."
"Also, 'Is the knowledge of contraries one or not?"
"Now boys and women lack this power, and neither has varicose veins except women very occasionally."
"It is also said that catmint changes into mint, and basil, if plucked up and planted by the Persian Gulf, will perhaps turn into thyme."
"Unlike that animal, the mare after once conceiving cannot be rendered pregnant again, but brings forth one foal only, at least as a general rule; in the human species cases of superfoetation are rare, but they do happen now and then."
"It is choice that constitutes wickedness and wrong doing, and such names as outrage or theft imply choice as well as the mere action."
"So much then for the properties of testicles in animals."
"We have, in fact, already ascertained the commonplaces applicable to enthymemes about good and evil, the noble and the base, justice and injustice, and also to those about types of character, emotions, and states of mind."
"It would be a pleasing use of the place, if the gymnastic exercises of the elder men were performed there."
"Rabies drives the animal mad, and any animal whatever, excepting man, will take the disease if bitten by a dog so afflicted; the disease is fatal to the dog itself, and to any animal it may bite, man excepted."
"Some plants grow at first in the form of low bushes and afterwards becomes trees, as, for instance, the nut tree, the chaste tree, and the plant called 'goatberry'."
"The dark bile, too, being itself naturally cold, cools also the nutrient tract, and the other parts wheresoever such secretion is potentially present."
"But, since that which is in place is either a point or a length or a plane or a solid, or some compound of these; and since the constituents of a line are in place (for the line is in place); and since neither a solid nor a plane, nor anything compounded of these, is contained in the line: there can be absolutely nothing in the length except points and lines."
"And so one might rather take the aforenamed objects to be ends; for they are loved for themselves."
"And if 'being a man' and 'not being a man' are to be one, they must mean one thing."
"But if, if A is not white, it is necessary that should be great, it necessarily results that if is not great, itself is great."
"The elements into which the kind might be divided apart from the quantity, are also called parts of it; for which reason we say the species are parts of the genus."
"As far, as may be, too, the poet should even act his story with the very gestures of his personages."
"Another line is that of rational correspondence.g."
"For in their case the nutriment can no longer come from without."
"Now, when they are burning, they have a smell similar to that of bitumen, so bad and pungent that no creeping thing remains in the place while they are burning."
"But a city ought to be composed, as far as possible, of equals and similars; and these are generally the middle classes."
"In birds and oviparous quadrupeds this covering is absent, but its office is discharged by a contraction of the windpipe."
"Therefore, we must conclude that all magnitudes are perceptible, but their actual dimensions do not present themselves immediately."
"from A to C; for the motion goes from the same point towards the same point, and contrary motion was distinguished as motion from a contrary to its contrary."
"The friend would choose, if both were not possible, rather to know than to be known, as we see women do when allowing others to adopt their children, eg Antiphon's Andromache."
"It is, then, clear that criticism is not to be passed in a like manner upon questioners and upon their arguments."
"Further, the angle which and make with will always be the same."
"It may also be felt when anyone sets himself up against his superior, especially against his superior in some particular respect whence the lines Only from battle he shrank with Ajax, Telamon's son; Zeus had been angered with him, had he fought with a mightier one; but also, even apart from that, when the inferior in any sense contends with his superior; a musician, for instance, with a just man, for justice is a finer thing than music."
"Again, let A be possible for every, and let necessarily belong to every."
"Again, this was also said by way of showing that it is not a good, that what exists in all and is common to all is not good."
"The end of democracy is freedom; of oligarchy, wealth; of aristocracy, the maintenance aristokratia from aristos ('best'). of education and national institutions; of tyranny, the protection of the tyrant."
"But the bad prefer natural goods to a friend and none of them loves a man so much as things; therefore they are not friends."
"This happens to them because they do not restrain their anger but retaliate openly owing to their quickness of temper, and then their anger ceases."
"Among the ovipara some produce the egg in a perfect condition (as birds and all oviparous quadrupeds and footless animals, eg lizards and tortoises and most snakes; for the eggs of all these do not increase when once laid)."
"For the security of the inhabitants depends upon a force of this sort, and only rich men can afford to keep horses."
"these are to be taken as principles."
"It is because the heat going out in an upward direction makes the eyes turn in the direction in which it is itself travelling, whereas during sleep the heat collects in the lower part of the body and so inclines the eyes downwards?"
"Assertion is the saying of something concerning something, as too is denial, and is in every case either true or false: this is not always the case with thought:"
"For there is error both in defect and in excess, and we are carried in both these directions through pleasure and pain."
"Doubtless because there is a contrariety in the formula."
"The hairs become straight or curly on account of the vapour arising in them."
"Some say that it is a reflection of our sight to the sun, just as they say that the comet is."
"For if the moisture were not plentiful or were not overpowered, hair would not grow on human beings nor feathers on birds."
"Let us consider, then, which of the homogeneous bodies are made of earth and which of water, and which of both."
"This will be even more apparent from the fact that activities are hindered by pleasures arising from other sources."
"Is it because the part which feels tickling must be situated not far from the seat of sensation?"
"It must therefore be pleasant for the most part to move towards a natural state of being, particularly when a natural process has achieved the complete recovery of that natural state."
"For it does not necessarily follow that if what is not is, what is is not."
"what grew from it no longer does so a phenomenon also occurring in what is called baldness, which is also due to a corruption and change in the surface of the flesh."
"There are corresponding differences of male and female in all the bloodless animals also which have this division into opposite sexes."
"It is wrong, however, to suppose, as some assert, that coming to be in the unqualified and complete sense is defined by association and dissociation, while the change that takes place in what is continuous is alteration."
"Again, as to the corporeal elements, it is childish to postulate them as partless."
"The notables again may be divided according to their wealth, birth, excellence, education, and similar differences."
"On this view the facts cease to appear surprising."
"The same cause must be ascribed for evil odour in the flesh and in that which is analogous to it (by which I mean that which in other animals corresponds to flesh); for here too there is sometimes unconcocted excretion."
"Whether, then, these are excellences or not is another question."
"If, when drawn back from the jaw, the skin at once goes back to its place, the animal is young; if it remains long wrinkled up, the animal is old."
"Therefore we should rather say that democracy is the form of government in which the free are rulers, and oligarchy in which the rich; it is only an accident that the free are the many and the rich are the few."
"To incontinence it belongs to choose the enjoyment of pleasures though reason forbids, to partake of them none the less though believing it to be better not to partake of them, and while thinking one ought to do what is noble and profitable still to abstain from these for the sake of pleasures."
"The largest of all the pigeon species is the ring dove; and the next in size is the stock dove; and the stock dove is a little larger than the common pigeon."
"For even if the end is the same for a single man and for a state, that of the state seems at all events something greater and more complete both to attain and to preserve; for though it is worth while to attain the end merely for one man, it is finer and more godlike to attain it for a nation or for city states."
"Now, we must assume that the causes of this affection in all other animals are identical with, or analogous to, those which operate in sanguineous animals; and that the causes operating in sanguineous animals generally are identical with those operating in man."
"the received text reads:. ."
"Possibility in the conclusion must be understood in the same manner as before."
"Therefore it is clear that 'it is not good' is not the denial of 'it is good'."
"Then the triangles are equal; for their base is equal."
"Hence Homer says that Meleager was roused to battle by the thought of All horrors that light on a folk whose city is ta'en of their foes, When they slaughter the men, when the town is wasted with ravening flame, When strangers are haling young children to thraldom."
"Is it because they look more to one man, their leader, and begin more slowly"
"so that the plants which grow there do not contain much moisture?"
"You must ask for pardon if you are forced to admit that you have committed faults of this kind, pointing out that your hearers Fuhrmann marks a lacuna here."
"At that rate the matter of the heavy and the light; qua matter of them, would be the void; for the dense and the rare are productive of locomotion in virtue of this contrariety, and in virtue of their hardness and softness productive of passivity and impassivity, ie not of locomotion but rather of qualitative change."
"For suppose A to belong to every or to some."
"said, 'Because the dog has something that is like the tile', implying that it was owing to the likeness that the dog resorted to it."
"And this result may be accomplished when there is no possibility of making money out of the offices; for the poor will not want to have them when there is nothing to be gained from them they would rather be attending to their own concerns; and the rich, who do not want money from the public treasury, will be able to take them; and so the poor will keep to their work and grow rich, and the notables will not be governed by the lower class."
"Friends belong to the class of pleasant things; it is pleasant to love if you love wine, you certainly find it delightful; and it is pleasant to be loved, for this too makes a man see himself as the possessor of goodness, a thing that every being that has a feeling for it desires to possess: to be loved means to be valued for one's own personal qualities."
"It is said that when the hot air issues from the mouth it pushes the surrounding air, which being carried on enters the very place"
"When he had received it from them he nevertheless sold them all as slaves, and seized all the treasures which had before been hidden and were now brought to light."
"what is understandable in virtue of demonstrative understanding will be necessary (it is demonstrative if we have it by having a demonstration)."
"But, further, it is obvious that on this theory it is impossible for any body whatever to be divided; for it would have to be divided at a plane, and the plane at a line, and the line at a point, so that if the point cannot be divided, neither can the line, and if the line cannot, neither can the plane nor the solid."
"For this reason they have no need to be so disturbed about the world, or to call in a guard for its centre"
"In discussing deliberative oratory we have spoken about the relative greatness of various goods, and about the greater and lesser in general."
"The end of the state is the good life, and these are the means towards it."
"The ridiculous may be defined as a mistake or deformity not productive of pain or harm to others; the mask, for instance, that excites laughter, is something ugly and distorted without causing pain."
"For', said he, 'I am willing for a smaller sum than that to leave Atarneus at once.'"
"Why is it that when people rise from a sitting position, they always do so by making an acute angle between the thigh and the lower leg and between the chest and the thigh, otherwise they cannot rise?"
"Since then the organs of special sensation have one common organ in which the senses when functioning must meet, and this must be situated midway between what is called before and behind (we call 'before' the direction from which sensation comes, 'behind' the opposite), further, since in all living things the body is divided into upper and lower (they all have upper and lower parts, so that this is true of plants as well)"
"Those which arise because it has not been defined what a deduction is and what a refutation is, come about because something is left out in their definition."
"But to say A of is false at any rate."
"So much for one view of the distinction between light and heavy."
"Since, then, happiness is a complete good and end, we must not fail to observe that it will be found in that which is complete."
"It is possible also in the first figure to bring about the impossibility, by assuming that belongs to."
"Others solve it as they solve the argument that what a man has, he has received; for this man gave only one vote; and the other, they say, has only one vote from him."
"Further, the definition of the whole is not contained in the definitions of the contents or elements of the definitory formula; that of man for instance in biped, or that of white man in white."
"Therefore the truly proud man must be good."
"But most prodigal people, as has been said, also take from the wrong sources, and are in this respect mean."
"consequently, since the nows are infinite in number, everything that is changing must have completed an infinite number of changes."
"consequently, it is simultaneously undergoing two contrary motions, since the two motions that follow the same straight line are contrary to each other."
"Why do black myrtle trees have thicker foliage than white?"
"For it may be thought that we have not proved universally of bodies that none whatever can exist outside our universe, and that our argument applied only to those of indeterminate position."
"The fact is that weed eating fishes find abundance of their special food in such localities, and carnivorous fish find an unusually large number of smaller fish."
"In defence she argues that it is not her children, but Jason, whom she would have slain; for it would have been a mistake on her part not to do this if she had done the other."
"And, to judge by what he says, they can be attached to things and can again be separated from them, especially since Strife and Love are still fighting with one another."
"I way as products of art."
"In the goose tribe the female alone incubates, and after once sitting on the eggs she continues brooding until they are hatched."
"For constructive purposes, on the other hand, see whether he avoids ever repeating the same word; for then the property will in this respect have been correctly rendered."
"Thus when enough is drawn up but a great quantity remains, they conceive without realising it."
"eg the view maintained by the sophists that what is need not in every case either have come to be or be eternal; for a musician who is a grammarian is so without ever having come to be so, or being so eternally."
"It has a huckle bone like that of the ox, but meagre and small in proportion to its bulk."
"It runs somewhat as follows."
"One should similarly treat those who object to the statement that the greater the good, the greater the evil that is its opposite, for they allege that health, which is a less good thing than vigour, has a greater evil as its opposite; for disease is a greater evil than debility."
"But if their friendship is of the useful or civic kind, we must consider what would have been profitable lines for an agreement."
"This indeed is the reason why none of the physicists made fire or earth the one infinite body, but either water or air or what is intermediate between them, because the abode of each of the two was plainly determinate, while the others have an ambiguous place between up and down."
"A sign that the relative is least of all a substance and a real thing is the fact that it alone has no proper generation or destruction or movement, as in quantity there is increase and diminution, in quality alteration, in place locomotion, in substance simple generation and destruction."
"Thus then it is plain that it is not of the whole soul that we have to treat."
"After rain the earth is being dried by its own heat and that from above and gives off the exhalation which we saw to be the body of the wind."
"It is true that some take place when a wind is blowing, but this presents no difficulty."
"This explains why pulsation in youth exceeds that in older people, for in the young the exhalation is more abundant."
"It is evident also that in all the figures, whenever a deduction does not result, if both the terms are affirmative or negative nothing necessary follows at a all, but if one is affirmative, the other negative, and if the negative is assumed universally, a deduction always results relating the minor to the major term, eg if A belongs to every or some, and belongs to no C; for if the propositions are converted it is necessary that does not belong to some."
"The latter is the same as what is transparent,"
"For if there is to be one it must be at full moon, and then as the moon is either rising or setting."
"Children cannot walk erect because they are always dwarf like, the upper parts of their bodies being too long and too stout in proportion to the lower."
"It is for the same reason that children and invalids have shrill voices, whereas grown men and healthy persons have deep voices."
"But everywhere the one is indivisible either in quantity or in kind."
"It is a demonstration, when the premisses from which the deduction starts are true and primitive, or are such that our knowledge of them has originally come through premisses which are primitive and true; and it is a dialectical deduction, if it reasons from reputable opinions."
"Everything, therefore, that is to be, will be of necessity, eg"
"Therefore one of them must be the good, but the capacity is both the contraries alike, or neither; the actuality, then, is better."
"In Egypt the physician is allowed to alter his treatment after the fourth day, but if sooner, he takes the risk."
"For it is a general rule in fighting contentious persons, to treat them not as refuting, but as merely appearing to refute; for we say that they don't really deduce anything, so that our object in correcting them must be to dispel the appearance of it."
"The female of this fish is round, the male longer and flatter; when the female is beginning to breed the male turns black and mottled, and is quite unfit for the table; at this period he is nicknamed the 'goat'."
"they go fluttering about within a restricted space, and the bee keeper knows from this that they are expecting bad weather."
"And indestructible is also used of that which is destroyed with difficulty."
"Nothing then prevents a man both knowing and being mistaken about the same thing, provided that his knowledge and his error are not contrary."
"Why have fishermen reddish hair, and divers for murex,"
"If, then, it is maintained that in some instance the attribute belongs, you must prove that in some instance it does not belong; for then it will follow, by reason of the hypothesis, that it does not belong in any instance."
"if someone knows that every triangle has two right angles, he knows in a sense of the isosceles too that it has two right angles potentially even if he does not know of the isosceles that it is a triangle."
"Paromoeosis is making the extreme words of both members like each other."
"Again, as Parmenides says, what prevents the universe, though it be one and ungenerated, from being nevertheless limited and Like to the mass of a sphere on all sides carefully rounded, Everywhere equally far from the midst; for Fate hath appointed That neither here nor there should it either be greater or smaller?"
"For the spleen attracts the residual humours from the stomach, and owing to its bloodlike character is enabled to assist in their concoction."
"For, if he does love himself, it is only because he is good."
"Further, they maintain, it is equally necessary to deny the existence of motion."
"Animals which have the superior and the front parts identically situated are four footed, many footed, or footless."
"There is, indeed, a difficulty about part and whole, perhaps not relevant to the present argument, yet deserving consideration on its own account namely, whether the part and the whole are one or more than one, and in what way they can be one or many, and, if they are more than one, in what way they are more than one."
"Again he puts his view in yet other terms: Mind is the monad, science or knowledge the dyad (because it goes undeviatingly from one point to another), opinion the number of the plane, sensation the number of the solid; the numbers are by him expressly identified with the Forms themselves or principles, and are formed out of the elements; now things are apprehended either by mind or science or opinion or sensation, and these same numbers are the Forms of things."
"It will be necessary, then, as it seems, for them above all to be pleasant."
"Now in a man who feels shame the blood seems to be carried upwards in a heated condition; it therefore passes into the part which is most devoid of it and causes it to become red."
"Care should also be taken that state trials are as few as possible, and heavy penalties should be inflicted on those who bring groundless accusations; for it is the practice to indict, not members of the popular party, but the notables, although the citizens ought to be all attached to the constitution as well, or at any rate should not regard their rulers as enemies."
"However, with the view of observing due order and sequence and of combining reason with perception, we shall proceed to enumerate the parts: firstly, the organic, and afterwards the uniform."
"But for the generated there must be such a time either actually or potentially, though not for A and in either way."
"It follows then that the excellences are actually in vain and that they are not sciences."
"For you understand better if you know from the higher explanations; for you know from what is prior when you know from unexplainable explanations."
"In respect too of facing dangers an atrabilious state causes great variation, in that many of those who are in this condition are inconsistent under the influence fears; for they vary from time to time according to the state in which their bodies happen to be in respect of their atrabilious temperament."
"It is possible to have divided into the same ratio as the largest quantity another magnitude of any size you like."
"and there is left only being a master"
"A substance, on the other hand, is said to be able to receive contraries because it itself receives contraries."
"If we could, the number of ultimate differentiae would equal the number of indivisible animal species."
"That divisibility does so we have already shown; that infinity does so will be made clear in what follows."
"Is it because two things are fatal to life, excess and cold?"
"We must note also that, if the soul moves itself, it must be the mover itself that is moved, so that it follows that if movement is in every case a displacement of that which is in movement, in that respect in which it is said to be moved, the movement of the soul must be a departure from its essential nature, at least if its self movement is essential to it, not incidental."
"the only difference being that whereas the Ephors are five, the Cosmi are ten in number."
"For if it is in fact what equidistant from the middle, why should what has been defined be?"
"If geometry is to differ from mensuration only in this, that the latter of these deals with things that we perceive, and the former with things that are not perceptible, evidently there will be a science other than medicine, intermediate between medical science in itself and this individual medical science, and so with each of the other sciences."
"For example, white, which is in a subject (the body), is predicated of the subject; for a body is called white."
"It therefore touches it, because there is nothing between them; but it does not become wet, because it always remains above the water."
"But to the incontinent man may be applied the proverb 'when water chokes, what is one to wash it down with?'"
"Now farting is breath from the lower stomach and belching is from the upper stomach, but sneezing is from the head; because, therefore, this region is most sacred, the breath also from it is revered as sacred."
"Symptoms of the malady are a sinking in and wrinkling of the lip in the middle under the nostrils, and a twitching of the right testicle."
"Besides, the Egyptians affirm that conjunctions of the planets with one another, and with the fixed stars, take place, and we have ourselves observed Jupiter coinciding with one of the stars in the Twins and hiding it, and yet no comet was formed."
"Parts are often found which are adapted to reproduction, leaves, for example, and flowers and small twigs (which are flowers outside the plant); similarly with the fruit and leaves of a plant, and what is produced from the seed and the shell which surrounds it."
"The probative enthymeme makes an inference from what is accepted, the refutative makes an inference to what is unaccepted."
"Such a plurality is in fact impossible if this world contains the entirety of matter, as in fact it does."
"Why is it that long walks are more fatiguing and short walks less fatiguing over level ground than over uneven country?"
"was undesirable becomes, under contrary conditions, desirable."
"And after the water has formed it falls down again to the earth."
"Of the appetites some are irrational, some associated with reason."
"For everything that is not pulled forward by instruments either is light and has a nature such as to travel upwards or else is drawn upwards from that place by breath."
"Thus there can be no primary thing to which a thing has changed."
"This raises another puzzle; for, unless a man can percei and see without being aware of it, the eye must see itself."
"Shall we not, like archers who have a mark to aim at, be more likely to hit upon what we should?"
"They assume that, because happens after, it happens because of."
"To suggest this is like saying that the white is the first principle, not qua anything else"
"Or is there not a further reason, namely, that the South wind is stronger as it ceases to blow (hence the proverb applied to it, 'When the South wind begins. .'), and stronger winds are colder, and so the South wind masses the clouds together at the end of its duration?"
"Several blooded animals hide, such as the tessellates, namely, the serpent, the lizard, the gecko, and the river crocodile, all of which go into hiding for four months in the depth of winter, and during that time eat nothing."
"And so it is absurd that such things should have an essence; if they have, there will be an infinite regress; for in snub nose yet another nose will be involved."
"The objection, however, does not seem to be true; for many people deny that there is knowledge of objects of perception."
"That being so, either they must always persist and not be transformable into one another; or they must undergo transformation either all of them, or some only (as Plato wrote in the Timaeus)."
"The same phenomenon is observable in the animals that have horny tessellations, as in the lizard and its congeners; for they all close the eye with the lower lid, but they do not blink like birds."
"Therefore the hunters put excrement in a vessel, and suspend it from a tree, so that the leopard, by leaping up towards it and becoming exhausted, may be paralysed by it, and fall into their power."
"After parturition and the cleansing flood the milk comes in plenty, and in some women it flows not only from the nipples but at divers parts of the breasts, and in some cases even from the armpits."
"we mean that which is adopted in contests), for in this the performer practises the art, not for the sake of his own improvement, but in order to give pleasure, and that of a vulgar sort, to his hearers."
"Circular and reciprocal proof means proof by means of the conclusion and by taking one of the propositions with its predication reversed and inferring the other which was assumed in the original deduction: eg suppose we had to prove that A belongs to every, and it has been proved through B; suppose that A should now be proved to belong to by assuming that A belongs to, and to before; but the reverse was assumed, viz."
"But we must not suppose that the cause of this is that the world is in process of becoming."
"For, if we except the movement of the universe, things with life are the causes of the movement of all else, that is of all that are not moved by one another by mutual impact."
"Drossaart Lulofs excises 'to a certain. ."
"For aristocracy is considered to be a kind of oligarchy, as being the rule of a few, and the so called constitutional government to be really a democracy, just as among the winds we make the west a variation of the north, and the east of the south wind."
"It is clear that it is neither possible to refute by this method, nor to deduce about an accident or property of a thing, nor about its genus, nor in cases in which it is unknown whether it is thus or thus, eg whether the diagonal is incommensurate or commensurate."
"In meeting questions that seem to involve you in a contradiction, offer the explanation at the outset of your answer, before your opponent asks the next question or draws his conclusion."
"After they have laid their eggs, the eggs assume the shape of oval grubs and are enveloped by a sort of thin clay, like a membrane; in this membrane like formation they grow on to maturity."
"I mean by wholly false the contrary of the truth, eg if what belongs to none is assumed to belong to all, or if what belongs to all is assumed to belong to none."
"For one would at the same time hold the belief that the same thing can be otherwise and cannot be otherwise, which is not possible."
"A story is told of a toper in Syracuse, how he used to put eggs into the ground under his rush mat and to keep on drinking until he hatched them."
"Now that we have established these distinctions, we must proceed to consider causes, their character and number."
"For it is impossible for any one to believe the same thing to be and not to be, as some think Heraclitus says; for what a man says he does not necessarily believe."
"For what is different from being does not exist, so that it necessarily follows, according to the argument of Parmenides, that all things that are are one and this is being."
"For the deduction will be either in the first or in the middle figure."
"But they must predicate of every subject every attribute and the negation of it indifferently."
"Why is there an eclipse?"
"With regard to the shape of each star, the most reasonable view is that they are spherical."
"And if A and belong to every, A will belong to some B; but in the original premiss it belonged to no."
"We thus arrive at law; for an order of succession implies law."
"And we judge better when independent than when in want, and most of all we then seek friends worthy to be lived with."
"This explains why the middle of the world and the surface which faces us of the rotating system are held to be up and down in the strict and fullest sense for all men: for the one is always at rest, while the inner side of the rotating body remains always coincident with itself."
"Sometimes they last for six months, sometimes for less; sometimes they are annual, whilst in other cases offices are held for still longer periods."
"For since limbed creatures stand and take their weight alternately on one or other of the opposite legs, if one be thrust forward the other must of necessity be bent."
"But since some goods are precious and some as we distinguished earlier, and of such goods some are in truth great and some small, and of these some men are worthy and think themselves so, among these we must look for the magnanimous man."
"Earth, then, and bodies in which earth preponderates, must needs have weight everywhere, while water is heavy anywhere but in earth, and air is heavy when not in water or earth."
"As common instances of a necessary and positive relation we may take the terms white, animal, snow; of an impossible relation, white, animal, pitch."
"Further, everything that changes must be divisible."
"How this is done we have already stated in dealing with public speaking and persuasion and dissuasion, and we shall again allude to it finally in treating of the defensive style of oratory."
"If A belongs to no, and to some, A will belong not to every."
"Let us too, then, first lay this down as a rough sketch."
"In fact birds of prey never drink at all, excepting a very few, and these drink very rarely; and this last observation is peculiarly applicable to the kestrel."
"But even substances that have been burnt nearly all possess some heat, cinders, for example, and ashes, the waste products of animals, and, among the excretions, bile; because some residue of heat has been left in them after their combustion."
"do excellences arise in us; rather we are adapted by nature to receive them, and are made perfect by habit."
"Now that which is of this nature, like lye and orpiment, makes the hair reddish."
"But the facts are directly opposed to this."
"Now if arguments were in themselves enough to make men good, they would justly, as Theognis says, have won very great rewards, and such rewards should have been provided; but as things are, while they seem to have power to encourage and stimulate the generous minded among the young, and to make a character which is gently born, and a true lover of what is noble, ready to be possessed by excellence, they are not able to encourage the many to nobility and goodness."
"For their matter is irregular, ie is not everywhere the same;"
"Therefore it comes down the ducts and diminishes in quantity at the same time as this happens to the eggs of the females, for the males always attend them, shedding their milt upon the eggs as they are laid."
"There is a principle in things, about which we cannot be deceived, but must always, on the contrary, recognize the truth, viz."
"In all there is a head; but none of the parts, excepting this recipient of food, has any distinctive name."
"But when the cause is in themselves, we will not in that case say that they are forced."
"This agrees with the saying that 'human life is a circle'."
"Again, we feel friendly to those who have treated us well, either ourselves or those we care for; or if they have done so on a large scale, or readily, or at some particular crisis; provided it was for our own sake."
"The position of the mytis shows that it corresponds to the heart of sanguineous animals; for it occupies the self same place."
"In so far as there is any deficiency or excess, the resulting product is in worse condition or physically defective, in like manner as in the case of external substances which are thickened by boiling that they may be more palatable or for any other purpose."
"Fishes, however, have eyes of a fluid consistency."
"there are many such, but in these equality constitutes unity."
"Nouns are of two kinds, either simple, ie made up of non significant parts, like the word earth, or double; in the latter case the word may be made up either of a significant and a non significant part (a distinction which disappears in the compound), or of two significant parts."
"In the first place, then, words are of three kinds, simple, composite, and metaphorical."
"I mean the white man."
", clearly the nutritive principle must be situated midway between these."
"Whenever the deduction is formed in the middle figure, the truth will be found in the first, whatever the problem may be."
"All below the thorax is soft, and when opened is found to be sallow coloured within."
"Moreover, anger can be cured by time; but hatred cannot."
"For they seek at the same time the warmth of the sun and food; now the sea is not only water but much more material than fresh water and hot in its nature; it has a share in all the parts of the universe, water and air and earth, so that it also has a share in all living things which are produced in connexion with each of these elements."
"And this is what happens on the sea in winter and on land in summer."
"They are white when the moisture which contains their proper colouring is dried up in the course of maturation."
"For since the negative is convertible, will belong to no M; but was admitted to belong to some O"
"If, therefore, the moisture, the evaporation of which causes sneezing, enters in larger quantities and more often into wide ducts, and man more than"
"Wherefore the ruler who has a care of the constitution should invent terrors, and bring distant dangers near, in order that the citizens may be on their guard, and, like sentinels in a night watch, never relax their attention."
"Omitting the comma after me (line and the full stop after kinesin (line."
"Another characteristic of substances is that there is nothing contrary to them."
"It is evident from this that the third view is the worst, that ideal and mathematical number is the same."
"It is said that the places outside the Pillars of Hercules burn, some constantly, others at night only, as Hanno's Circumnavigation relates."
"For thus the ears do not become full, as they do when the sponges are removed."
"For in oligarchies the rich who are wanted to be judges are compelled to attend under pain of a fine, whereas in democracies the poor are paid to attend."
"The bird called sitta is quarrelsome, but clever and tidy, makes its living with ease, and for its wide learning is called the wizard; it has a numerous brood, of which it is fond, and lives by pecking the bark of trees."
"For friendship, we maintain, exists only where there can be a return of affection, but friendship towards god does not admit of love being returned, nor at all of loving."
"we not pay the closest attention when the subjects of deliberation are important or alarming or else nearly concern us; or when those who address us claim that they will show us that the measures which they are urging us to adopt are just and honourable and expedient and easy and honest; or when they beg us to listen with attention?"
"But in all such matters that which appears to the good man is thought to be really so."
"There is also the argument that what is of evil is good; for wisdom is a knowledge of evils."
"for the end probably contains some element of pleasure, though not any ordinary pleasure; but they mistake the lower for the higher, and in seeking for the one find the other, since every pleasure has a likeness to the end of action."
"But the earthy element in milk can also be coagulated by the help of fig juice, if you boil it in a certain way as doctors do when they treat it with fig juice, and this is how the whey and the cheese are commonly separated."
"For the seed comes from other individuals which are prior and complete, and the first thing is not seed but the (<U+039B>) complete being, eg we must say that before the seed there is a man, not the man produced from the seed, but another from whom the seed comes."
"I is ever unaccompanied by the other."
"The duty of rhetoric is to deal with such matters as we deliberate upon without arts or systems to guide us, in the hearing of persons who cannot take in at a glance a complicated argument, or follow a long chain of reasoning."
"The question what is or is not suitable for different ages may be easily answered; nor is there any difficulty in meeting the objection of those who say that the study of music is mechanical."
"The back of the head is with all animals empty and hollow, whatever be its size in the different animals."
"For there is nothing to prevent someone's having said ten thousand years beforehand that this would be the case, and another's having denied it; so that whichever of the two was true to say then, will be the case of necessity."
"The first question is whether the art of getting wealth is the same as the art of managing a household or a part of it, or instrumental to it; and if the last, whether in the way that the art of making shuttles is instrumental to the art of weaving, or in the way that the casting of bronze is instrumental to the art of the statuary, for they are not instrumental in the same way, but the one provides tools and the other material; and by material"
"Proper: eg that a line is such and such, and straight so and so; common:"
"Perhaps there is nothing to prevent each of the two parts, or at any rate one of them, that which is moved, being potentially divided though actually undivided, so that it if is divided it will not continue in the possession of the same nature; and so there is nothing to prevent self motion residing primarily in things that are potentially divisible."
"Secondly, see whether it is predicated not in what it is, but as an accident, as white is predicated of snow, or self moved of the soul."
"Therefore it will be contrary to more things than one."
"For while we may become pleased quickly as we may become angry quickly, we cannot be pleased quickly, not even in relation to some one else, while we can walk, or grow, or the like, quickly."
"Separate detachments of bees are told off for diverse operations; that is, some carry flower produce, others carry water, others smooth and arrange the combs."
"We have now to deal with arrangement."
"And statesmen as well ought to know these things; for a state is often as much in want of money and of such schemes for obtaining it as a household, or even more so; hence some public men devote themselves entirely to finance."
"It is also ungenerated, since if it was generated it will have the power for some time of not being."
"So much, then, for apparent refutations."
"All insects when cut in two continue to live, excepting such as are extremely cold, or such as from their minute size chill rapidly; though wasps continue living after severance."
"See Posterior Analytics I."
"Or why do they not stop at some point beyond ten and repeat from there?"
"But in other cases the result is exhaustion, when the heat accumulates excessively owing to lack of respiration and of refrigeration."
"For the same numerically one thing is white and sweet, and has many other qualities; for if the qualities are not separable from one another, their being is different in each case."
"the bad king becomes a tyrant."
"The distinction of before and after holds primarily, then, in place; and there in virtue of relative position."
"As a general rule, fishes are more quickly attracted by savoury smells."
"For measure is that by which quantity is known; and quantity qua quantity is known either by a 'one' or by a number, and all number is known by a 'one'."
"Why, if the human voice is more pleasant than an instrument, is the voice of a man singing without words as, for example, when singing nonny noes not so pleasant as a flute or lyre?"
"The power of locomotion is not found, however, in all living things."
"It often happens, however, that, though they see the ambiguity, people hesitate to draw such distinctions, because of the dense crowd of persons who propose questions of the kind, in order that they may not be thought to be illtempered at every turn; then again, though they would never have supposed that that was the point on which the argument turned, they often find themselves faced by a paradox."
"But is movement continuous because of the continuity of that which is moved, or because that in which the movement occurs"
"Thus (e.g.) you will deny that to sacrifice one's father is honourable: it is honourable only to certain persons; it is not therefore honourable without qualification."
"In viviparous animals furnished with feet, gristle formations are found in the region of the ears, in the nostrils, and around certain extremities of the bones."
"The reason is that these have no power of locomotion, and the superior part is determined relatively to the nutriment, and their nutriment is from the earth."
"on the contrary, these are causes of a particular motion, if at least we assume that first mover to be a principle."
"Again his particoloured plumes are worn."
"And again, fire moves up naturally and down unnaturally; and its natural motion is certainly contrary to its unnatural motion."
"It can be demonstrated from previous judgements by a consideration such as this: 'Not only do I hold that the lawgiver made this law to cover such cases as these, but on a former occasion, when Lysithidas gave an explanation similar to that which I am now putting forward, the jury voted in favour of this interpretation of the law'."
"Now the judge restores equality; it is as though there were a line divided into unequal parts, and he took away that by which the greater segment exceeds the half, and added it to the smaller segment."
"They ought neither to be absolutely many nor yet few."
"For if they are not the same, then clearly the term is homonymous:"
"Why is it that those who have widely spaced teeth are not long lived?"
"Inasmuch, however, as there is annexed to it, on account of its affinity to the art of sophistry, th it can conduct an examination not only dialectically but also with a show of knowledge, we therefore proposed for our treatise not only the aforesaid aim of being able to exact an account of any view, but also the aim of ensuring that in defending an argument we shall defend our thesis in the same manner by means of views as reputable as possible."
"Both styles, then, having these qualities, he who is accusing, when he charges his opponents with wickedness, must declare that their acts are unjust and illegal and detrimental to the interests of the mass of citizens; when he is accusing an adversary of folly, he must declare his acts to be both inexpedient for the actual doer of them and disgraceful and odious and impracticable."
"With regard to dogs some doubts are entertained, as some contend that they shed no teeth whatever, and others that they shed the canines only; but it has been observed that they do shed their teeth like man, but that the circumstance escapes notice, owing to the fact that they never shed them until equivalent teeth have grown up under them."
"That is why youths and rich men are insolent; they think themselves superior when they show insolence."
"We have thus stated one way in which unqualified will be distinguished from qualified coming to be and passing away; but they are also distinguished according to the material of the changing thing."
"You will have to recall well known deeds among others; and because they are well known, the hearer usually needs no narration of them; none, for instance, if your object is the praise of Achilles; we all know the facts of his life what you have to do is to apply those facts."
"And if a part, a part merely distinguishable by definition or a part distinct in local situation as well?"
"Therefore this is a question to be considered, whether all males do so, or not all; and if not all, why some do and some not; and whether the female also contributes any semen or not; and, if not semen, whether she does not contribute anything else either, or whether she contributes something else which is not semen."
"For 'animal' is present in the formula that defines him; Callias is a particular animal."
"Yet it is characteristic of acute vision to see what is small."
"For that which cannot be numbered is the same as the infinite, and the infinite is always more than the determinate."
"There is no wickedness, then, with regard to these objects, for the reason named, viz."
"At the baths, however, and in places which are similarly public, it is easy for any one who wishes to commit a crime; for those who place their property there have no sure means of guarding it except their own eyes, so that, if one takes one's eye off it for a moment, it is immediately placed at the mercy of the thief."
"The qualities which pertain to excellence are proper subjects of eulogy; those which fall outside it must be disguised, for we ought to congratulate rather than praise those who are strong and handsome and well born and wealthy."
"Hence men even define the excellences as certain states of impassivity and rest; not well, however, because they speak absolutely, and do not say 'as one ought' and 'as one ought not' and 'when one ought or ought not', and the other things that may be added."
"The above may be taken as a sufficient account of the nature of equity."
"And there are also two kinds of universal; one is predicable of the agent, the other of the object; eg 'dry food is good for every man', and 'I am a man', or 'such and such food is dry'; but whether this food is such and such, of this the incontinent man either has not or is not exercising the knowledge."
"So at the centre and round it we get earth and water, the heaviest and coldest elements, by themselves; round them and contiguous with them, air and what we commonly call fire."
"Again, if the species are indivisible and the differentiae are indivisible, and if no differentia be common to several groups, the number of differentiae must be equal to the number of species."
"Likewise, also, with other relative terms, inasmuch as all such are convertible."
"Or is it because we keep awake when reclining on the left side, and in this position we can easily employ ourselves in any particular function; and so for the contrary purpose the contrary positi is advantageous; for each position invites to a particular function."
"in the same way these philosophers say the differences in the elements are the causes of all other qualities."
"if, when there is a demonstration, a man who has not got an account of the reason why does not have understanding, and if it might be that A belongs to from necessity but that, the middle term through which it was demonstrated, does not hold from necessity, then he does not know the reason why."
", I do not act voluntarily; for the act was not in my power)."
"The proper answer in saying what one thinks is to say 'Granted'; for in that way the likelihood of being refuted on a side issue is minimized."
"A rod is a rainbow appearing in the form of a straight line."
"And this is the nature of the equitable, a correction of law where it is defective owing to its universality."
"So with servants: we are most liable to take offence at those with whom we most frequently come into contact in daily life."
"The first extends from the back of the head, through the neck on the outside, past the backbone on either side, until it reaches the loins and passes on to the legs, after which it goes on through the shins to the outer side of the ankles and on to the feet."
"If, then, as is asserted, the excellences are voluntary (for we are ourselves somehow part causes of our states of character, and it is by being persons of a certain kind that we assume the end to be so and so), the vices also will be voluntary; for the same is true of them."
"Like the human species it brings forth at all seasons of the year, but especially at the time when the earliest kids are forthcoming."
"So much for the sexual proclivities of the partridge, for the way in which it is hunted, and the general wicked habits of the bird."
"For sleep does not pertain to one organ in animals and dreaming to another; both pertain to the same organ."
"And if the negative is posited the other way about, the same holds."
"For if belongs both to A and to, if it is assumed to belong to A and not to belong to, then will be true and the other false."
"Fishes, however, that are flat and furnished with tails as the ray, the sting ray and the like copulate not only in this way, but also, There is a lacuna in the text at this point."
"This is especially the case with the sheep and the goat, and next in degree with the cow."
"Habits also are pleasant; for as soon as a thing has become habitual, it is virtually natural; habit is a thing not unlike nature; what happens often is akin to what happens always, natural events happening always, habitual events often."
"It is peculiar in the arrangement of its toes, and resembles the snake in the structure of its tongue; for the creature can protrude its tongue to the extent of four inches and then draw it back again."
"We deliberate not about ends but about what contributes to ends."
"Again, after parturition, it first swallows the afterbirth, then goes in quest of the seseli shrub, and after eating of it returns to its young."
"Or, again, when those who have the power of deliberation are self elected, and son succeeds father, and they and not the laws are supreme the government is of necessity oligarchical."
"It is opposed, then, to comprehension; for comprehension is of the definitions, for which no reason can be given, while practical wisdom is concerned with the ultimate particular, which is the object not of knowledge but of perception not the perception of qualities peculiar to one sense but a perception akin to that by which we perceive that the particular figure before us is a triangle; for in that direction too there will be a limit."
"which is the aim of poetry, though it affixes proper names to the characters; by a singular statement, one as to what, say, Alcibiades did or had done to him."
"Recriminations are common in dissimilar friendships, where action and reaction are not in the same straight line; and it is not easy to see what is just."
"Plainly, then, excess with regard to pleasures is self indulgence and is culpa ble; with regard to pains one is not, as in the case of courage, called temperate for facing them or self indulgent for not doing so, but the self indulgent man is so called because he is pained more than he ought at not getting pleasant things (even his pain being caused by pleasure), and the temperate man is so called because he is not pained at the absence of what is pleasant and at his abstinence from it."
"But privative terms in their character of privatives admit of no subdivision."
"Hence, where the relation of master and slave between them is natural they are friends and have a common interest, but where it rests merely on convention and force the reverse is true."
"To demand that those who are coming into being should always be numerically identical is foolish, but one would more readily accept that they were identical in kind."
"For there will have to be some cause of change, and if this had been present earlier it would have been possible for that which could not be otherwise to be otherwise."
"They have contrariety with each other air is cold, water moist, fire hot; if one were infinite, the others by now would have ceased to be."
"It is the heart that is moved (or in the case of a pleasant object some other part)."
"Now if all the citizens judge, in all the different cases which I have distinguished, they may be appointed by vote or by lot, or sometimes by lot and sometimes by vote."
"The incapacities of animals, age, decay, and the like, are all unnatural, due, it seems, to the fact that the whole animal complex is made up of materials which differ in respect of their proper places, and no single part occupies its own place."
"Therefore, as it seems, all men make unqualified judgements, if not about all things, still about what is better and worse."
"For in some cases it will not do so; eg in the Platonic definition where he adds the word 'mortal' in his definitions of living creatures; for the Idea (e.g. man itself) is not mortal, so that the account will not fit the Idea."
"But the fact that insects sleep may be very well seen in the case of common everyday creatures; for not only do they rest at night time from dimness of vision (for all hard eyed creatures see but indistinctly), but even if a lighted candle be presented they continue sleeping quite as soundly."
"possible goods and moreover have them, for it is an injustice that those who are not our equals should have been held to deserve as much as we have."
"Again, the man who loses anything from a private house is in a place where it is easy for him to bear his misfortune, since he is in his own home and neither suffers anything nor is jeered at by others."
"It is apparent that there are bodies which, when smaller in bulk than others, yet exceed them in weight."
"But it is the heart that has supreme control, exercising an additional and completing function."
"Now when this matter gathers in relation to a star the comet necessarily appears to follow the same course as the star."
"Now no one deliberates about things that cannot be otherwise nor about things that it is impossible for him to do."
"For it is made great not merely by the number of those who give the honour or by their quality, but also by its being precious; but in reality, power and all other goods are precious and worthy of pursuit only if they are truly great, so that there is no excellence without greatness; therefore every excellence, as we have said, makes a man magnanimous in regard to the object with which that excellence is concerned."
"Very often it is possible to take a fish off its guard so far as to catch hold of it or to give it a blow unawares; and all the while the fish is quite still"
"Let A be an infinite, a finite, the time of action."
"The laws will ensure this if certain distinctions are set aside by law for the owners of property in return for their expenditure in the service of the state, and if the laws show more consideration for the tillers of the soil and the sailors among the poorer classes than for the poor; so that the rich may willingly serve the state, and the people may prefer work to dishonest means of gain."
"I cannot, however, assert that it is inanimate as long as it possesses soul and some form of sensation; for that which receives food is not entirely without soul."
"Is it because the salt causes drying to take place?"
"How are we to decide?"
"The question may be raised why the development of birds and fishes differs in this respect."
"Thus much is clear in the first place, that, as in all other things, birth implies an antecedent beginning, and that there are beginnings whose end is relative to a further end."
"and so fulfill the purpose for which men come together into one state."
"Let the compound be denoted by 'cloak'."
"For sinew is found in the heart, and sinews are attached to the bones: but those in the heart do not connect with anything else, but they end in the flesh."
"Neither can one deduce that since this has come about this will be."
"So too we compete with those who follow the same ends as ourselves: we compete with our rivals in sport or in love, and generally with those who are after the same things; and it is therefore these whom we are bound to envy beyond all others."
"(And yet the elements at all events are dissociated not by Strife, but by Love; since the elements are by nature prior to god, and they too are gods.)"
"The north wind, on the other hand, coming from moist regions, is full of vapour and therefore cold."
"When the moisture is concocted with the nutritive material, it will assume a pyramidal form, and therefore the ducts within will be wide and will afterwards become narrow and pyramidal; when the nutritive material makes its appearance already concocted and formed, it will close up the extremities of the ducts above, and the leaves will have no nutritive material, and therefore dry up."
"It may raise a question and cause surprise that, when speaking of character and dealing with a department of state craft, we are speaking about philosophy."
"They, therefore, called the earliest of their subsequent songs by the name as their earliest songs."
"These forms of government have always had the character of tyrannies, because they possess despotic power; but inasmuch as they are elective and acquiesced in by their subjects, they are kingly."
"Or is it due to the pleasure of anticipation?"
"Moreover, see if the object admits of degrees, whereas what is given by the account does not, or, vice versa, what is given by the account admits of degrees while the object does not."
"For every fluid requires a receptacle, and in the case of the blood the vessels are that receptacle."
"Nor, if there were, would it help us."
"Indeed on many grounds it is ridiculous to say that this is the channel through which animals imbibe fluid."
"The earth is diversified by countless kinds of verdure and lofty mountains and densely wooded copses and cities, which that intelligent animal man has founded, and islands set in the sea and continents."
"She is also more wakeful, more shrinking, more difficult to rouse to action, and requires a smaller quantity of nutriment."
"Such being our foundation and such the principle from which we start, the characteristics of democracy are as follows: the election of officers by all out of all; and that all should rule over each, and each in his turn over all; that the appointment to all offices, or to all but those which require experience and skill, should be made by lot; that no property qualification should be required for offices, or only a very low one; that a man should not hold the same office twice, or not often, or in the case of few except military offices; that the tenure of all offices, or of as many as possible, should be brief; that all men should sit in judgement, or that judges selected out of all should judge, in all matters, or in most and in the greatest and most important such as the scrutiny of accounts, the constitution, and private contracts; that the assembly should be supreme over all causes, or at any rate over the most important, and the magistrates over none or only over a very few."
"I are in an intermediate condition because they participate in both classes, being at once oviparous and viviparous."
"This part, then, must evidently be similarly divided."
"And the same thing can be shown by argument."
"This is why in misfortune we do not wish to be seen by those who once wished themselves like us; for such a feeling implies admiration."
"Nevertheless in some the opposite occurs."
"(b) 'a man does not recover' (d) 'a not man does not recover' (c) 'a not man recovers' For these differ from the previous ones in not being universal."
"It is a characteristic common to every substance not to be in a subject."
"the seed is not yet potentially a man; for it must further undergo a change in a foreign medium."
"By pursuing a method such as the above in the matter of oaths we shall have no lack of material."
"This promise is not kept in 's extant works."
"Hence those who have the welfare of the state at heart should counteract them, and make a law that the property of the condemned should not be public and go into the treasury but be sacred."
"If we follow these and similar methods, we shall have abundant material in cases of accusation and defence."
"the other colours are observed to be produced out of this and black, and black is the privation of white, as darkness of light."
"From this circumstance it is plain that it is not true, as some say, that they develop in the same way as creatures that come from grubs; for the opposite phenomena are observed in the case of these latter, in that their lower extremities are the larger at the outset, and that the eyes and the head appear later on."
"When the sight is relatively strong the change is to red; the next stage is green, and a further degree of weakness gives violet."
"Is it because what happens in our part of the world during the summer occurs during the winter among those who inhabit the opposite hemisphere of the earth, and with us in the winter the winds blow early and from the east, because the air, which during the night is full of moisture, is dissolved and set in motion by the sun in the early morning, the air nearest the sun being the first to be affected?"
"The same is true of the other excellences."
"But suppose it exists and is ungenerated, and suppose it were granted that for this reason it is unlimited, and that more than one thing cannot be unlimited, and it must therefore be said to be one, and it is impossible. ."
"But as for the principles how they become familiar and what is the state that becomes familiar with them that will be clear from what follows, when we have first set down the puzzles."
"Copper, for instance, which can be melted, cannot be softened in water, whereas wool and earth can be softened in water, for they can be soaked."
"All constitutions have three elements, concerning which the good lawgiver has to regard what is expedient for each constitution."
"It follows that the body which revolves with a circular See Physics."
"The newt swims by means of its feet and tail; and its tail resembles that of the sheat fish, to compare little with great."
"But since, if it is a living animal, it must also live; therefore, when it is necessary for it to accomplish the function of that which has life, it unites and copulates, becoming like a plant, as we said before."
"The sinews are formed in the same way as the bones and out of the same materials, the seminal and nutritious residue."
"With regard to the fact that some persons who are liable to derangement have this foresight, its explanation is that their normal mental movements do not impede the alien movements, but are beaten off by them."
"Hence, too, the belief about the good that it is not good is contrary to that about the good that it is good."
"For the one which is followed by the greater good is the more desirable; or, if the consequences be evil, that is more desirable which is followed by the less evil."
"We must, however, return and ask how much of this argument is correct and how much not."
"The fishermen can tell where he is on guard; for, in warding off the little fishes, he makes a rush in the water and gives utterance to a kind of muttering noise."
"Now in the masculine and feminine the inflections are all different, whereas in the neuter some are and some are not."
"Our predecessors' theories on the subject are conflicting."
"Again, the female is less muscular and less compactly jointed, and more thin and delicate in the hair that is, where hair is found; and, where there is no hair, less strongly furnished in some analogous substance."
"Terms for the positive relation are animal, horse, inanimate; for the negative relation man, horse, inanimate inanimate being the middle term."
"It is for this reason too that flowers when rubbed lose their scent."
"For one can puff out cold breath and huff out warm breath."
"It follows from what has been said that no non sanguineous animals have either lard or suet; for they have no blood."
"Similarly as regards the division into Wild and Tame; for it also would involve the disruption of a species into different groups."
"In the same way also consider the processes of generation and destruction; if (e.g.) to build is to be active, then to have built is to have been active, and if to learn is to recollect, then also to have learnt is to have recollected, and if to be decomposed is to be destroyed, then to have been decomposed is to have been destroyed, and decomposition is a kind of destruction."
"Now so much for these puzzles; but is there deduction and demonstration of what a thing is, or is there not, as the argument just now supposed?"
"This is evident if we consider it in every case; for the mathematical sciences are acquired in this fashion, and so is each of the other arts."
"Since, then, the smallest particles cannot leap far, a mass is formed of very small objects; and since it is in frequent motion, it becomes continuous, the sand falling in amongst it until it unites it together; it is then levelled by the last waves, and the slight moisture causes it to adhere together."
"For a cause and its effect are different, and what is called a cause contains no reference to an impulse which attains good, in the way either of avoiding evil or on the other hand of obtaining good, when not thinking to obtain it."
"Suppose has been proved through as middle term, and again through the conclusion and the proposition converted, and similarly through the conclusion and the proposition converted."
"Agamemnon's dream occurs at Iliad but in our texts the phrase cites appears not there but at."
"Hence the water from fountains and rivers flows of itself, whereas wells need to be worked artificially."
"And this length must be indivisible."
"so that either there will be two senses both percipient of the same sensible object, or the sense must be percipient of itself."
"But the circular movement is natural, since otherwise it could not be eternal; for nothing unnatural is eternal."
"Even if such a life is not accepted, either for individuals or states, still a city should be formidable to enemies, whether invading or retreating."
"Why is it that men do not become drunkards by being addicted to sweet wine, which is pleasanter to the taste?"
"eg the process of making thin is of this sort, and the things themselves when one is making them thin are in movement in this way (i.e. without being already that at which the movement aims), this is not an action or at least not a complete one (for it is not an end); but that in which the end is present is an action.g."
"The kind of comet varies according to the shape which the exhalation happens to take."
"For the nature of liquid is more plastic than that of earth and yet not much less material, and this is especially true of the inhabitants of the sea, for fresh water, though sweet and nutritious, is cold and less material."
"The left cavity has the least blood of all, and the coldest; while in the middle cavity the blood, as regards quantity and heat, is intermediate to the other two, being however of purer quality than either."
"Common sources of such coloration are the flowers of plants and their roots, bark, wood, leaves, or fruit, and again, earth, foam, and inks."
"The deer is the only animal that sheds its horns, and it does so annually, after reaching the age of two years, and again renews them."
"Again, nobody has an infinity of joints in his body or his hand, but he has an infinity of points."
"The city of Hippodamus was composed of citizens divided into three parts one of artisans, one of husbandmen, and a third of armed defenders of the state."
"I mean absolutely soft and not relatively"
"The same applies to negative deductions."
"there is the nose, and concavity, and snubness, which is compounded out of the two by the presence of the one in the other, and it is not by accident that the nose has the attribute either of concavity or of snubness, but in virtue of its nature; nor do they attach to it as whiteness does to Callias, or to man (because Callias, who happens to be a man, is white), but rather as 'male' attaches to animal and 'equal' to quantity, and as everything else which is said of something in its own right."
"that which is coming to be and"
"One might raise the question whether the science of being qua being is to be regarded as universal or not."
"Something of the sort happens also with regard to the throwing of goods overboard in a storm; for in the abstract no one throws goods away voluntarily, but on condition of its securing the safety of himself and his crew any sensible man does so."
"Now the man who regards the common principles with their application to the particular matter in hand is a dialectician, while the man who only appears to do this is a sophist."
"Besides, the final cause and end of a thing is the best, and to be self sufficing is the end and the best."
"But nothing prevents his being ignorant that exists; eg let A stand for two right angles, for triangle, for a sensible triangle."
"Where, then, the result is something apart from the exercise, the actuality is in the thing that is being made, eg the act of building is in the thing that is being built and that of weaving in the thing that is being woven, and similarly in all other cases, and in general the movement is in the thing that is being moved; but when there is no product apart from the actuality, the actuality is in the agents, eg the act of seeing is in the seeing subject and that of theorizing in the theorizing subject and the life is in the soul (and therefore well being also; for it is a certain kind of life)."
"Also, to have one's own is just, while to have what is another"
"For the earth aids in the concoction by its heat, and the brooding hen does the same, for she infuses the heat that is within her."
"With what object should they do so?"
"When a property is given relatively to something else, there are either two problems or four."
"For nutriment supplies the material, and the blood is the ultimate nutriment."
"It is also a difficult problem to decide which of these parts are in nature distinct from one another."
"We however must discuss the subject, starting from the presuppositions and distinctions we have mentioned."
"Rue, therefore, being eaten beforehand, since it is naturally warming, rarefies the organ which receives the food and the whole body, with the result that passes out the flatulence enclosed within it."
"We shall be justified in supposing that the case is similar with wild beasts in general; for they are said to shed their canines only."
"It is often supposed that there is only one kind of democracy and one of oligarchy."
"Since every political society is composed of rulers and subjects, let us consider whether the relations of one to the other should interchange or be permanent."
"It is also a sophistical trick, when a paradox has been laid down, to require, when the accepted view has been originally proposed that the answerer shall answer what he thinks about it, and to put one's question on matters of that kind in the form 'Do you think that. . ?'"
"properties in the same point so that, if it suffers action by being chilled, it will also, qua chilled, act or suffer action in some other way."
"Further, there is no reason why A may not belong to no, while necessarily does not belong to some A; eg it is possible that no man should be white (for it is also possible that every man should be white), but it is not true to say that it is possible that no white thing should be a man; for many white things are necessarily not men, and the necessary (as we saw) is other than the possible."
"In view of this they cannot bend them otherwise than outwards."
"For fishes, and all insects as a class, have, thanks to the species of odour correlated with nutrition, a keen olfactory sense of their proper food from a distance, even when they are very far away from it; such is the case with bees, and also with the class of small ants, which some denominate knipes."
"The accompaniments of incontinence are effeminacy, negligence, and generally the same as those of intemperance."
"The manner and means of investing speeches with moral character may now be regarded as fully set forth."
"necessarily, if this is not what being a triplet is, it is some sort of genus, either named or nameless."
"is evident; for practically the majority of the acts commanded by the law are those which are prescribed from the point of view of excellence taken as a whole; for the law bids us practise every excellence and forbids us to practise any vice."
"It had also already certain definite forms at the time when the record of those termed comic poets begins."
"But the impossibility of infinite weight can be shown in the following way."
"There are four possible ways of preventing a man from working his argument to a conclusion."
"Ewes conceive after three or four copulations with the ram."
"We have said in our account of substance that everything that is produced is something produced from something and by something, and is the same in species as it."
"Libya extends from the Arabian isthmus to the Pillars of Heracles; though some describe it as stretching from the Nile to the Pillars; Egypt, which is surrounded by the mouths of the Nile, is given by some to Asia, by others to Libya; some exclude the islands from both continents, others attach them to their nearest neighbour."
"He believed that the same conclusion followed no less plainly from a study of the contrary of pleasure; pain was in itself an object of aversion to all things, and therefore its contrary must be similarly an object of choice."
"For this is the language of men that seek equality."
"For girls who give way to wantonness grow more and more wanton; and the same is true of boys, if they do not guard against the one temptation or both; for the passages become dilated and set up a flux and besides this the recollection of pleasure associated with former indulgence creates a longing for its repetition."
"Yet they do not all agree as to the number and the nature of these principles."
"Is it because in each case the excess of heat or cold extends over this period, and excess causes disease and death in the weakly?"
"An accidental attribute too may be more or less remote, eg suppose that a pale man or a musical man were said to be the cause of the statue."
"When the heat in leaving them has caused most of the moistu to evaporate, the cold so compacts these bodies together again as to leave no entrance even for moisture."
"We maintain, therefore, that the first essential, the life and soul, so to speak, of tragedy is the plot; and that the characters come second compare the parallel in painting, where the most beautiful colours laid on without order will not give one the same pleasure as a simple black and white sketch of a portrait."
"In oligarchical states the laws ought to distribute the magistracies impartially to all who possess the rights of citizenship; most of them should be bestowed by lot, but the most important should be assigned by secret vote under oath and with the strictest precautions."
"Is it because the breezes which come from the north are weak when they blow at night?"
"But there are not more points than one anywhere within it, for the points are not consecutive; hence it is not divisible through and through."
"We could pass beyond it only in virtue of a defect in it and"
"Now incontinence and continence are concerned with that which is in excess of the state characteristic of most men; for the continent man abides by his resolutions more and the incontinent man less than most men can."
"For the membrane comes between them."
"And if the science in question deals with substance, whether does one science deal with all substances, or more than one, and if more, whether are all akin, or must some of them be called forms of wisdom and the others something else?"
"When the signs are somewhat fleshy in colour, the womb will be noticeably distended without any pain, whether it is touched or not, and it will neither be unresponsive nor have its neck in an unusual condition."
"If there are things capable both of being and of not being, there must be some definite maximum time of their being and not being; a time, I mean, during which the thing can be and a time during which it can fail to be."
"Their confidence is greatest if they personally possess the advantages mentioned; but even without them they are satisfied if they have friends or supporters or partners who do possess them: they can thus both commit their crimes and escape being found out and punished for committing them."
"Given this situation it follows that when this wind gives way the whole body of the sea, driven on by the opposite wind, will burst out and cause a flood."
"Since of the intellectual states by which we grasp truth some are always true and some admit falsehood (e.g. opinion and reasoning whereas understanding and comprehension are always true), and no kind other than comprehension is more precise than understanding, and the principles of demonstrations are more familiar, and all understanding involves an account"
"The result of this was that a great quantity of corn was collected."
"After the children have been born, the manner of rearing them may be supposed to have a great effect on their bodily strength."
"the generic contraries, eg the one and the many"
"It is mentioned by Homer in his account of the visit made by Priam to the tent of Achilles."
"The ribs are for the purpose of locking together; the originator of motion, itself immovable, is the spine, from which spring the ribs for the purpose of locking the body together: for there must be something of this kind, since everything that is in motion depends on something that is in a state of rest."
"Moreover, suppose two things to be before you, see if the object applies in greater degree to the one to which the content of the account is less applicable."
"By nature some grow up loving, and others ambitious; the former is one who delights rather in loving than in being loved, the other tends to be fond of honour."
"Often, too, there are exhalations of fire from the sea, and springs gush out and river mouths are formed and trees suddenly grow up, and currents and eddies appear, like those caused in the air by blasts of wind, sometimes in the middle of the sea, sometimes in straits and channels."
"So it must occupy either the centre or the circumference, since these are the principles."
"Just as with all animals a change of action follows a change of circumstance, so also a change of character follows a change of action, and often some portions of the physical frame undergo a change, as occurs in the case of birds."
"This condition is due to ea of the two causes, weakness and strength; the former prevents concoction of the nutriment, the latter causes it to be all consumed, as said above."
"It is for this reason that atrabilious persons start in their sleep, because, owing to the excess of heat, the mind is in a state of too much movement, and, when the movement is too violent, they cannot sleep."
"The end of the things that undergo boiling, or indeed any form of concoction, is not always the same: some are meant to be eaten, some drunk, and some are intended for other uses; for instance drugs, too, are said to be boiled."
"This is shown by the fact that we say the equitable man is above all others a man of forgiveness and identify equity with forgiveness about certain facts."
"Also, that which we share less in common with evil men; for what is not attended by any unpleasantness is more desirable than what is so attended."
"They all are what they are in virtue of a certain power of action or passion just like flesh and sinew."
"But since man is by nature composed of a ruling and a subject part, each of us should live according to the governing element within himself but this is ambiguous, for medical science governs in one sense, health in another, Reading kala kagatha for kaloi kagathoi."
"To this cause is to be attributed the fall of the Peisistratidae and of many others."
"Hence the common good is not identical with the Idea, for the common good belongs to all."
"Only some of them will be proved per impossibile, others by the conversion of the possible proposition, as has been shown above."
"And similarly no blood vessel has in itself a separate individuality; but they all form parts of one whole."
"That whatever is a man is not musical is proved destructively in the three ways mentioned."
"that which thinks will not be a man, but only that which is thought."
"I mean anger, desire, and the like"
"So wine mixed in the water is more easily affected than unmixed wine."
"But A belongs to every C; consequently is possible of no."
"For it is into these two that the blood first passes when it quits the heart; and all the other vessels are but offshoots from them."
"For it is not the whole soul that constitutes the animal nature, but only some part or parts of it."
"were not; for there would be no faculty of sense."
"(whence it happens that the exhalation arising from food, being cooled by the coldness of this region, produces unhealthy rheums); therefore it is that odours of such a species have been generated for human beings, as a safeguard to health."
"All things then have not the same elements."
"Now, in every animal the hot naturally tends to move upwards, but when it has reached the parts above, it turns back again, and moves downwards in a mass."
"It is found in those who are fair skinned and of a feminine type generally, but not in those who are dark and of a masculine appearance."
"Fishes deposit their eggs close in to shore, the goby close to stones; and the spawn of the goby is flat and crumbly."
"The most hated sort, and with the greatest reason, is usury, which makes a gain out of money itself, and not from the natural object of it."
"And Empedocles, though he uses the causes to a greater extent than this, neither does so sufficiently nor attains consistency in their use."
"The chameleon resembles the lizard in the general configuration of its body, but the ribs stretch downwards and meet together under the belly as is the case with fishes, and the spike sticks up as with the fish."
"In discussing this, we must begin by inquiring whether all things return upon themselves in a uniform manner; or whether, on the contrary, though in some sequences what recurs is numerically the same, in other sequences it is the same only in species."
"For in what is fitting is involved suitability both to the obje (e.g. one thing is fitting for a servant's, another for a favourite's wedding) and to the entertainer both in extent and kind, eg people thought that the mission conducted by Themistocles to the Olympian games was not fitting to him because of his previous low station, but would have been to Cimon."
"When the major is related universally to the middle, take as terms for a negative relation raven, snow, white."
"even the female elephant, like other animals, though she has the privy part below the thighs."
"And small minded men are envious, for everything seems great to them."
"The evil begins at home; for when they are boys, by reason of the luxury in which they are brought up, they never learn, even at school, the habit of obedience."
"'source' or '(first) principle'."
"An enthymeme is a deduction starting from probabilities or signs, and a sign may be taken in three ways, corresponding to the position of the middle term in the figures."
"as urged by us, and on what is impossible by nature or impossible as urged by our adversaries."
"In the case of male children the first movement usually occurs on the righthand side of the womb and about the fortieth day, but if the child be a female then on the left hand side and about the ninetieth day."
"For we say that something comes about not for that reason, when the deduction is concluded in spite of the refutation of this; but that is not possible in probative cases; since if an assumption is refuted, a deduction can no longer be drawn in reference to it."
"But there may be bodies of men about whom our statement is nevertheless true."
"But as far as they do to some extent partake of movement, even the visions of the good are Susemihl marks a lacuna."
"Then if it belongs to nothing other than the atomic triplets, this will be what being a triplet is for let this too be supposed, that the substance of a thing is the last such predication to hold of the atoms."
"but all of them together belong to nothing other than the triplet."
"If anyone is going to suppose that an argument which turns upon homonymy is a refutation, it will be impossible for an answerer to escape being refuted in a sense; for in the case of visible objects one is bound of necessity to deny the term he has asserted, and to assert what he has denied."
"Thus Autocles said, when attacking Mixidemides, that it was a strange thing that the Dread Goddesses could without loss of dignity submit to the judgement of the Areopagus, and yet Mixidemides could not."
"First let them be affirmative: suppose that A belongs to every, and may belong to every."
"If the poet meant to describe the thing. ."
"Yet we see that the heavens revolve in a circle, and by argument also we have determined that there is something to which circular movement belongs."
"not every man is just' (d) 'not every man is not just' (c) 'every man is not just' Here, however, it is not in the same way possible for diagonal statements to be true together, though it is possible sometimes."
"We must, with a view to the science which we are seeking, first recount the subjects that should be first discussed."
"Or is it because, as a result of cooling, the heat collects in the interior region of the body, and the flesh, as the heat leaves it, contracts more and more, and, as it draws together, the hair grows more upright, just as when one fixes a twig or some other object in the ground and fills the space round it and collects the soil on every side, it is more likely to remain erect than if one leaves the soil loose round it?"
"Apart from the irritation caused by lice and"
"Is it because some qualities can, and others cannot, be imitated by the soul, goodness being a quality of the soul and health of the body?"
"A plant which is fixed in the ground does not like to be separated from it."
"This question may be discussed separately from the enactments about women and children."
"In all these, then, the measure and starting point is something one and indivisible, since even in lines we treat as indivisible the line"
"When it takes place at a lower level it is due to the ejection of the exhalation by the condensing and cooling of the moister exhalation; for this latter as it condenses and inclines downward contracts, and thrusts out the hot element and causes it to be thrown downwards."
"this being the consequence of their having a lung."
"The severity of the earthquake is determined by the quantity of wind and the shape of the passages through which it flows."
"For what reason are there dwarfs?"
"But neither is it Love and Strife; for the former is a cause of association only, and the latter only of dissociation."
"And offerings belonging to them which were lying half finished in certain workshops he sold to the exiles and any one else who wished to buy them, allowing the name of the purchaser to be inscribed upon them."
"The observations made on journeys by sea and land bear this out."
"And in each art each expert will know the time of the good which concerns himself."
"(Mathematicians call this kind of proportion geometrical; for it is in geometrical proportion that it follows that the whole is to the whole as either part is to the corresponding part.)"
"For it is not things which are in any way the same that have all their attributes the same, but only those to be which is the same."
"Now there are many identical principles which are true of everything, though they are not such as to constitute a particular nature, ie a particular kind of being, but are like negations, while other principles are not of this kind but are proper; accordingly it is possible from these general principles to hold an examination on everything, and that there should be a definite art of so doing, and, moreover, an art which is not of the same kind as those which prove."
"But the word is also used in another sense of the ordering and arrangement of all things, preserved by and through God."
"Besides, as has been said before, a female embryo has been observed in the right part of the uterus, a male in the left, or again both at once in the same part, and this not only once but several times."
"As the sow grows old she continues to bear, but grows indifferent to the boar; she conceives after a single copulation, but they have to put the boar to her repeatedly owing to her dropping after intercourse what is called the sowvirus."
"But either we must suppose that water contains in itself the various kinds of savour, though in amounts so small as to be imperceptible, which is the doctrine of Empedocles; or the water must be a sort of matter, qualified, as it were, to produce germs of savours of all kinds, so that all kinds of savour are generated from the water, though different kinds from its different parts; or else the water is in itself quite undifferentiated in respect of savour, but some agent, such for example as one might conceive heat or the sun to be, is the efficient cause of savour."
"It must also be painful for the soul to be inextricably bound up with the body; furthermore, if, as is frequently said and widely accepted, it is better for thought not to be embodied, the union must be for it undesirable."
"Hence in a sort of way their generation is analogous."
"The same argument applies if we suppose that it changes in one part and has changed in the other; for then we shall have something prior to what is primary."
"For this purpose his objection must state what is more usually true than the statement attacked."
"Now whenever the cause of men's doing something contrary to their nature or contrary to their wish is outside of them, we will say that they are forced to do what they do."
"It is not easy to determine the nature of music, or why anyone should have a knowledge of it."
"Therefore the age at which the hair is at its whitest or blackest varies in different cases; for even ravens' feathers turn yellow in the end, when the nutriment in them fails."
"So in these commentaries written expressly for you you will find material for amplifying these two treatises."
"Thus the results follow as they should: in some cases the affections passed through are all the same; in others most are the same, when most causes are the same; in others a few; and in others none, when none are."
"That it becomes cold is clear from the change which it undergoes; for the air from water causes cold."
"For while a wise man, as well as a just man and the rest, needs the necessaries of life, when they are sufficiently equipped with things of that sort the just man needs people towards whom and with whom he shall act justly, and the temperate man, the brave man, and each of the others is in the same case, but the wise man, even when by himself, can contemplate truth, and the better the wiser he is; he can perhaps do so better if he has fellow workers, but still he is the most self sufficient."
"In investigating the cause of each thing it is always necessary to seek what is most precise (as also in other things): thus a man builds because he is a builder, and a builder builds in virtue of his art of building."
"If it is from the lungs that the breath is distributed to all parts of the body, including those lower than the lungs, how can the process of its digestion be so rapid?"
"But it is also possible for to be true while the other is false, ie if is both in and in A; for it is necessary for the one to be under the other, so that if you assume that A belongs to no, the proposition will be false."
"eg those who have made their money love it more than those who have inherited it; and to be well treated seems to involve no labour,"
"A blow does not always amount to outrage, but only if it is struck with some such purpose as to insult the man struck or gratify the striker himself."
"Another consequence that follows is that the animal must be moved by its number precisely in the way that Democritus explained its being moved."
"why it is that a man easily moves a boat from outside, if he push with a pole, putting it against the mast or some other part, but if he tried to do this when in the boat itself he would never move it, no not even Tityus himself nor Boreas blowing from inside the ship, if he really were blowing in the way painters represent him; for they paint him sending the breath out from himself."
"By co ordinates are meant things such as the following: just deeds and the just man are co ordinates of justice, and courageous deeds and the courageous man are co ordinates of courage."
"If then it is uncertain whether A belongs to, and also whether A belongs to, and if one should assume that A does belong to, it is not yet clear whether he begs the point at issue, but it is evident that he is not demonstrating; for what is as uncertain as the question to be answered cannot be a principle of a demonstration."
"For just as a fire of equal size gives less heat in a large room than in a small one, so also does the heat in the present case; for the vessels and the cavities are receptacles."
"Some frui have as many as three coverings."
"But is it not only when an equal distance is moved in an equal time that the velocities are equal?"
"These are, the humiliation of his subjects, for he knows that a mean spirited man will not conspire against anybody: the creation of mistrust among them; for a tyrant is not overthrown until men begin to have confidence in one another; and this is the reason why tyrants are at war with the good; they are under the idea that their power is endangered by them, not only because they will not be ruled despotically, but also because they are loyal to one another, and to other men, and do not inform against one another or against other men"
"The semen of the male only sets them; and therefore at first the egg in birds appears white and small, but as it advances it is all yellow"
"But they ought, from what are admitted to be goods, eg health, strength, and temperance, to demonstrate that beauty is present even more in the changeless; for all these things are order and rest; but if so, then the changeless is still more beautiful, for it has these attributes still more."
"Is it then not knowledge, but opinion?"
"There is an equal number of holes in and for the sides are equal, each to each, for the whole side is double the side."
"Therefore some of those who are naturally of a melancholic temperament become entirely enervated as the result of a drunken debauch."
"Many too, if this heat approaches the region of the intellect, are affected by diseases of frenzy and possession; and this is the origin of Sibyls and soothsayers and all inspired persons, when they are affected not by disease but by natural temperament."
"The class of snails is the only class of such creatures that has been seen uniting, but it has never yet been sufficiently observed whether their generation is the result of the union or not."
"henos de me ontos oud' an holos"
"the pig is not a large one), and also it is more often clovenhoofed, striving as it were with the nature of the solid hoofed animals."
"But in the Selachia the backbone, though it is cartilaginous, yet contains marrow; for here it stands in the stead of a bone."
"Nor will the commensurability, therefore; hence this eternally is not, because it is contrary to what eternally is."
"Is it not quite natural that the strain should be greater when the breath is held, since then they are swollen and distended?"
"Moreover, there can always be something between points (for all lines are intermediate between points), whereas it is not necessary that there should be anything between units; for there is nothing between the numbers one and two."
"Some call it difference and inequality and the unreal; none of these, however, is necessarily moved, and further, change is not to these nor from these but rather from opposite to opposite."
"And since the drinking of wine makes even freemen insolent, and many nations even of freemen abstain therefrom (the Carthaginians, for instance, when they are on military service), it is clear that wine ought never to be given to slaves, or at any rate very seldom."
"to her first choice, beyond which her father's authority could not go."
"Further, as a general rule, in northern waters the bloom is blackish, and in southern waters of a reddish hue."
"But without qualification two is few; for it is the first plurality which is deficient."
"Thus since it is true to say without qualification that not only things which are separable but also things which are inseparable exist for instance, that moving things exist, it is true also to say, without qualification, that the objects of mathematics exist, and with the character ascribed to them by mathematicians."
"Other members of this same school say there are ten principles, which they arrange in two columns of cognates limit and unlimited, odd and even, one and plurality, right and left, male and female, resting and moving, straight and curved, light and darkness, good and bad, square and oblong."
"But if the negative is particular, no analysis will be possible; for the particular negative does not admit of conversion."
"We must also dwell upon the numerous and incalculable vicissitudes of warfare."
"For it is about our actions that we deliberate and inquire, and all our actions have a contingent character; hardly any of them are determined by necessity."
"Consequently their definitions ought to correspond, eg anger should be defined as a certain mode of movement of such and such a body (or part or faculty of a body) by this or that cause and for this or that end."
"Those, then, are friends to whom the same things are good and evil; and those who are, moreover, friendly or unfriendly to the same people for in that case they must have the same wishes, and thus by wishing for each other what they wish for themselves, they show themselves each other's friends."
"Under the eyebrows come the eyes."
"For the contrary, viz."
"The fallacy consists in requiring that a body travelling at an equal speed travels for an equal time past a moving body and a body of the same size at rest."
"First, they say that pleasure is a becoming, and that a becoming is something incomplete, but that the good never occupies the place of the incomplete."
"For you may subtract as much as you please from an infinite."
"For it appeared to be an absurdity that one who possessed knowledge should cast it from him or fall away from it."
"What can this be in the present case?"
"These distinctions having been made, let us say whether excellence makes the choice correct and"
"We must state whether it belongs to one or to different sciences to inquire into the truths which are in mathematics called axioms, and into substance."
"But let this sense be set aside; let us inquire about the parts of which substance consists."
"(The reason of this is that, generally speaking, their sizes correspond to this difference.)"
"So that, if this also is to be called good fortune, at all events the other sort has a more intimate connexion with happiness, namely, that wherein the principle of impulse towards the attainment of goods is in the man himself."
"It is not, however, likely that the hair can by its weight overpower the moisture when it is congealed and condensed; and if it is impossible for the hair to lie down anywhere because the moisture is congealed, the only thing left for it to do is to stand erect."
"As, however, those who are equal in one thing ought not to have an equal share in all, nor those who are unequal in one thing to have an unequal share in all, it is certain that all forms of government which rest on either of these principles are perversions."
"Is it because barley meal when moistened and kneaded unites owing to the binding quality of the moisture, because it is of even texture and granulated, but wheaten flour rises, because it is very dense?"
"any way, even with the head downwards, like the gecko lizard."
"And if is convertible in relation to A as well, also will be convertible."
"The primary immanent element in a thing, from which its growth proceeds."
", but two posits are the first and fewest from which it is possible, if at all, actually to deduce something."
"(Caecias is half north and half east)."
"And a movement contrary to reason sometimes does and sometimes does not arise in the parts on the occasion of the same thoughts; the reason is that sometimes the matter which is passive is there in sufficient quantity and of the right quality and sometimes not."
"Salt, too, is more odorous than natron, as the oil which exudes from the former proves, for natron is allied to earth more nearly than salt."
"As a rule, the male is generative up to the age of sixty five, and to the age of forty five"
"the cause seems to be in general that ascribed by Anaxagoras; for the air which is cut off within it is the cause of the water not entering when the tube has been closed."
"As then diarrhoea is caused in the bowels by the insufficient concoction of the blood, so are caused in the blood vessels"
"eg a musical question is non geometrical about geometry, but thinking that parallels meet is geometrical in a sense and non geometrical in another way."
"For the leg is an extremity, having length but not having width, as the foot has; consequently it is shaken."
"On the contrary, this is where the whole error lies."
"For hot water, generally speaking, produces concoction and has a drying effect, whereas cold water has an astringent effect, and so both do good."
"One must, too, acquire some experience of the other person and become familiar with him, and that is very hard."
"For we do not cease being thirsty because the stomach is full, but when each part of the body has drawn in its own particular moisture; and we cease being thirsty only when they have received this in sufficiency."
"For greyness is a weakness of the fluid in the brain and a lack of concoction, and so is blueness of the eyes; excess of thinness or of thickness produces the same effect, according as this liquidity is too little or too much."
"that which causes increase; for that which starts the increase does so by becoming attached in such a way that the whole becomes one."
"Thus to cast forth seed corn is called 'sowing'; but to cast forth its flame, as said of the sun, has no special name."
"Similarly if one is negative, the other affirmative."
"For he too is confronted by consequences some of which are the same as have been mentioned, while others are peculiar to him."
"animal and two footed?"
"But if the point is contained within Reading aneurethesetai."
"Up to a point, perhaps, as the doctor must know sinew or the smith bronze (i.e. until he understands the purpose of each); and the student of nature is concerned only with things whose forms are separable indeed, but do not exist apart from matter."
"For the above mentioned reasons then the vision does not travel to a distance."
"this is an outward rush of collected breath, and is the only mode of breath used as an omen and regarded as supernatural."
"That which is most distant in a straight line is contrary in place."
"As things are, there is disagreement about the subjects."
": rather it is that he has lost what he had before and has not now; but there is no necessity for him to have lost as much"
"The nature of the divine thought involves certain problems; for while thought is held to be the most divine of phenomena, the question what it must be in order to have that character involves difficulties."
"Besides, if a pregnant sow eats acorns in great quantities, it will miscarry, as is also the case with the ewe for acorns quite plainly have that effect on ewes."
"They suffer most from hunger when they recommence work after winter."
"we have investigated the movement of animals after their various kinds"
"For the parts that lie nearer to the place where the river is depositing the silt are necessarily marshy for a longer time since the water always lies most in the newly formed land."
"Therefore it is impossible to know things which are composed of them; for it is when we know the nature and quantity of its components that we suppose we know a complex."
"If earth is enclosed by water, water by air, air by fire, and these similarly by the upper bodies which while not continuous are yet contiguous with them and if the surface of water is spherical, and that which is continuous with or embraces the spherical must itself be spherical, then on these grounds also it is clear that the heavens are spherical."
"A state then should be framed with a view to the fulfilment of these functions."
"Why is it that some animals are able to feed themselves directly after birth, while others cannot?"
"Heat perishes either by dying down or by being extinguished; it is extinguished by its contraries, cold and moisture, and it dies down either through lack of material, as lamps do when they have no more fuel or oil, or under the influence of external heat, as the fire goes out in the sunlight and lamps when they are exposed to the fire."
"If you are speaking on some one else's behalf, you must say that you are pleading his cause from motives of friendship for him or hatred of his opponent, or because you were present at the events in question, or for the public good, or because your client stands in need of friends and is a victim of injustice."
"It is also applied where there is general impossibility of any generation such that the thing now is which then was not."
"For it is by interpolating a term inside and not by taking an additional one that what is demonstrated is demonstrated; hence if it is possible for this to go on ad infinitum, it would be possible for there to be infinitely many middle terms in between two terms."
"made this slight a pretext for attacking Archelaus, though even a less reason would have sufficed, for the real cause of the estrangement was the disgust which he felt at his sexual subjection."
"But seeing that the incontinent is the kind of man who knows and is not deceived in his reason, while the wise man also is of the same kind, who views everything by right reason, is it possible for the wise man to be incontinent?"
"For what changes as to an affection does not necessarily increase or diminish and likewise with the others."
"but Parmenides seems to speak with somewhat more insight."
"In addition to this we must show, when we are seeking to persuade our hearers, that friendship exists between them and those whom we are urging them to help, or that they owe a debt of gratitude to those who are asking for their assistance; but when we are trying to prevent help from being given, we must show that they are worthy objects of anger or envy or hostility."
"For affections are indeed inseparable."
"An argument of this sort is on the look out for the friendship based on utility; for if they are friends in so far as the one has need of the other, they are in the friendship which is based on utility."
"And if it is, or A or, either the deductions will be more than one, or the same thing happens to be inferred by means of several terms in the sense which we saw to be possible."
"Similarly if is universal."
"Now if the white persists, Water will be moist and white; but if it does not persist, Water will be black, since change is into contraries."
"It is also unreasonable to imagine a place for the void, as if the void were not itself a kind of place."
"For as the passage of food in such cases is rapid, and the enjoyment derived from it in consequence but brief, it follows of necessity that the return of appetite is also speedy."
"In fact, those who assert that eels are at times found with hair like or worm like or seaweed like objects within them, make only random assertions from not having carefully noticed the locality of such attachments."
"Yet something different."
"by the powers of self nutrition, sensation, thinking, and movement."
"For that which has happened, when it has happened, is."
"a fallacy belongs, and whether it is a refutation or not a refutation, is not equally easy in all cases."
"what the man said to the baker who asked whether he was to make the cake hard or soft: 'What, can't you make it right?'"
"Thus, in the Medea of Carcinus the accusers allege that Medea has slain her children; 'at all events', they say, 'they are not to be seen' Medea having made the mistake of sending her children away."
"And as regards the refutation that is in respect of one or other of the particular sciences it is the task of that particular scientist to examine whether it is merely apparent without being real, and, if it is real, what is the reason for it; whereas it is the business of dialecticians so to examine the refutation that proceeds from common principles and falls under no particular study."
"These, then, are the frames of mind in which men are easily stirred to anger."
"and what it is to be flesh are discriminated either by different faculties, or by the same faculty in two different states; for flesh necessarily involves matter and is like what is snub nosed, a this in a this."
"But because it does not differ in kind at any rate, several offspring are produced provided only that the divided semen is proportionate to the material, being neither too little to concoct it and fix it into form, nor too much so as to dry it up; and from this first formative semen, if it remains one, and is not divided, only one young one comes into being."
"For happiness is composed of certain goods."
"The females first insert the hollow tube, which they have at their tails, in the ground, and then lay their eggs (the male is not furnished with this tube)."
"For in every place body can be present; and void is said to be that in which the presence of body, though not actual, is possible; and time is the number of movement."
"scarcely an exception, and conspicuously all such as are capable of locomotion, are provided with a stomachal sac, which is as it were an internal substitute for the earth."
"But the man who is contemplating the truth needs no such thing, at least with a view to the exercise of his activity; indeed they are, one may say, even hindrances, at all events to his contemplation; but in so far as he is a man and lives with a number of people, he chooses to do excellent acts; he will therefore need such aids to living a human life."
"For if it is for no other reason, it is not unreasonable that it should be for this reason that it floats specially on the surface of sweet wine; for that is the hottest of wines."
"As Empedocles said that 'where heads of many a creature sprouted without necks' they afterwards by Love's power were combined, so here too objects of thought which were separate are combined, eg 'incommensurate' and 'diagonal': if the combination be of objects past or future the combination of thought includes in its content the date."
"We must examine these, determining their respective natures, and the causes of their occurrence."
"Animals that are viviparous externally and internally oviparous present an intermediate arrangement; for the underneath portion of the womb, in which the eggs are, is placed near to the loin, but the part about the orifice is above Transferring katothen arxamene from line."
"What is potentially flesh or bone has not yet its own nature, and does not exist by nature, until it receives the form specified in the definition, which we name in defining what flesh or bone is."
"If we call the rule of many men, who are all of them good, aristocracy, and the rule of one man kingship, then aristocracy will be better for states than kingship, whether the government is supported by force or not, provided only that a number of men equal in excellence can be found."
"stone when vomited up is a touchstone for gold."
"So that we ought not to attain this greatest unity even if we could, for it would be the destruction of the state."
"But when the time was at hand for the payment of the revenues, he told them that he needed these revenues as well, but would repay them later with interest."
"consequently if a sudden clap or noise is made, they close in together within the sheepfold by reason of their training."
"althou he may, perhaps, be ill voluntarily, through living incontinently and disobeying his doctors."
"Next, for destructive purposes, see if he has rendered a subject as a property of that which is said to be in the subject; for then what has been stated to be a property will not be a property."
"But we have still to consider whether the training of early life is to be that of reason or habit, for these two must accord, and when in accord they will then form the best of harmonies."
"Are their nails dark because their skin also is black and blacker than that of others, and the nails grow out of the skin?"
"But if it is something different from which the blood comes, the coming of the semen from all the parts will not be the cause of the resemblance, as is held"
"If I have not already answered for my words there, I am ready to do"
"; the genera must therefore of necessity be subordinate one to the other, and therefore if it is proved that the one we wish to establish as genus is not subordinate to the species, clearly the species will be subordinate to it, so that it is proved that it is the genus."
"Represent things with the help of metaphors and epithets, being careful to avoid poetical effects."
"Why is it that in marshy districts sores on the head are quickly cured, but Reading pyretos en ho ton."
"But, indeed, Socrates has not said, nor is it easy to decide, what in such a community will be the general form of the state."
"For the shell not only enables the soft parts to hold together, but also, as the animal is bloodless and so has but little natural warmth, surrounds it, as a chaufferette does the embers, and keeps in the smouldering heat."
"If, therefore, one of these is contrary, and the belief of the contradiction is more contrary, clearly this must be the contrary."
"One thing belongs to another in itself both if it belongs to it in what it is eg line to triangle and point to line (for their substance depends on these"
"and also if the things it belongs to themselves belong in the account which makes clear what it is eg straight belongs to line"
"Maxims should be employed in the arguments and in the narration too since these do express character: '"
"In like manner, therefore, we carry out the process of breathing; for we do so by contriving to draw in air, and then continue to draw it in."
"Why are not those Ideas the ideal man, so that men would exist by participation not in man, nor in one Idea, but in two, animal and biped?"
"For, the foodstuffs' not remaining on the surface, seems to belong to walking about, C; and, healthy, to this."
"else one with a touch of madness in him; the former can easily assume the required mood, and the latter may be actually beside himself with emotion."
"Now, as there are many actions, arts, and sciences, their ends also are many; the end of the medical art is health, that of shipbuilding a vessel, that of strategy victory, that of economics wealth."
"We must undertake war against those who are trying to injure the state or her friends or her allies."
"So that even if things are, they would be unknowable by us."
"Search was thereupon made and a man of those parts who bore the name of Cercidas hunted out and put upon his trial."
"For if it is assumed to belong to every A and to no, both propositions will be false not, however, as wholes but partially."
"the reason being the abundance not of blood but of breath."
"Now since our inquiry is whether there is or is not besides the sensible substances any which is immovable and eternal, and, if there is, what it is, we must first consider what is said by others, so that, if there is anything which they say wrongly, we may not be liable to the same objections, while, if there is any opinion common to them and us, we shall not quarrel with ourselves on that account; for one must be content to state some points better than one's predecessors, and others no worse."
"The rival treatments of the subject now before us will serve to illustrate how great is the difference between a scientific and a dialectical method of inquiry."
"The West wind is set in motion by the South winds and, when it blows, it sets the North winds in motion; for there the succession of the winds ceases."
"Such parents will risk being rejected by their offspring for their evil lives, and thus bringing destruction upon their own heads."
"For of everything relative the substance is relative to something else, seeing that the being of every relative term is identical with being in a certain relation to something."
"The substance of all these phenomena is the same: namely, the dry exhalation."
"Now these thinkers, as we said, must be neglected for the purposes of the present inquiry two of them entirely, as being a little too naive, viz."
"A few fish are in much the same condition whether with spawn or not, as the glaucus."
"As the bodies in which it subsists must have some extreme bounding surface, so too must this."
"After these organs come the kidneys, and these are placed close to the backbone, and resemble in character the same organ in the ox."
"that in which the judges are taken from all the citizens, and in which all causes are tried, is democratic; the second, which is composed of a few only who try all causes, oligarchical; the third, in which some courts are taken from all classes, and some from certain classes only, aristocratic and constitutional."
"For vaporous exhalation consists of mere water; and smoky exhalation cannot occur in water at all, though, as has been before stated, aquatic creatures also have the sense of smell."
"But it is he who holds the contrary belief who is most deceived with regard to anything, since contraries are among things which differ most with regard to the same thing."
"A similar phenomenon is the fact that a quadrilateral figure appears polygonal, and at a greater distance circular."
"For the non existence of a void and the inability of that which is full to receive any addition does not at all preclude the possibility of alteration."
"However that may be, if (as we have said) the man who is to be good must be well trained and habituated, and go on to spend his time in worthy occupations and neither willingly nor unwillingly do bad actions, and if this can be brought about if men live in accordance with a sort of intellect and right order, provided this has force,"
"It is therefore of advantage to lower it rather more slowly with a view to lightening the weight considerably when it is drawn up again."
"When the signs have ceased, the womb indicates, by not closing up at once, that. ."
"For it is not what has not teeth that we call toothless, or what has not sight blind, but what has not got them at the time when it is natural for it to have them."
"On the contrary, were the region of the brain thickly covered with flesh, the very purpose for which animals are provided with a brain would be directly contravened."
"For, if the whole soul holds together the whole body, we should expect each part of the soul to hold together a part of the body."
"But in another sense there are different first causes, viz."
"Of viviparous quadrupeds, such as are fierce and saw toothed are without exception carnivorous; though, by the way, it is stated of the wolf, but of no other animal, that in extremity of hunger it will eat a certain kind of earth."
"Now he does not give the correct reason in the case of bronze and tin we have spoken of them in the Problems nor, to take general ground, does he take his principles from the intelligible."
"And among birds the hens are less disposed that way than the cocks, because the uterus of the hen bird is up near the hypozoma; but with the cock birds it is the other way, for their testes are drawn up within them so that, if any kind of such birds has much semen naturally, it is always in need of this intercourse."
"held in honour these are wealth, abundance of friends, public office, and the like; on the assumption that they ought to be good men, they are emulous to gain such goods as ought, in their belief, to belong to men whose state of mind is good."
"consequently if this is false, it is necessary that A should belong to some."
"Furthermore, water which flows readily is strained through the earth; and if water is strained, the thickest and heaviest part of it is always carried to the bottom, while the light and clean element becomes separated."
"It is from the 'what' that deductions start; and from it also we now find processes of production to start."
"How, then, do such things come to be?"
"But those who use understatement with moderation and understate about matters that do not very much force themselves on our notice seem attractive."
"Why then should they be capable of existing apart?"
"Hence Periander advised Thrasybulus by cutting off the tops of the tallest ears of corn, meaning that he must always put out of the way the citizens who overtop the rest."
"If the movement is uneven, clearly there will be acceleration, maximum speed, and retardation, since these appear in all irregular motions."
"Now it darkens the flesh because it burns it; for that which is earthy always becomes black when burnt."
"Speaking generally, it is not the case, as others think, that reason is the principle and guide to excellence, but rather the feelings."
"For it is absurd that conviction of the truth of this argument should lead to the rejection of what credibly occurs."
"Or do they produce their effects by dissimilar means, the sun blackening the flesh by scorching it and the fire permeating the earthenware with the soot which it sends up?"
"Now it would be unreasonable to assign one and the same class of animals to both categories seeing that these are contrary to one another; we must accordingly supplement our definition of the term 'aquatic'."
"Let us speak next of liberality."
"But they assume that this discharge occurs through excess of blood and of heat, as if it were possible for everything to be equally blood if only it be liquid and sanguineous in colour, and as if it might not become less in quantity but purer in quality in those who assimilate nourishment properly."
"Again, from the same opinion proceeds the doctrine of Protagoras, and both doctrines must be alike true or alike untrue."
"We may now consider the above points settled, and pass on to say something about the way to devise lively and taking sayings."
"Further, the added notion must be an Idea, like plane, a definite entity which will be present as genus in all its species."
"The school we first mentioned is right in saying that it is a principle, but how the good is a principle they do not say whether as end or as mover or as form."
"So we must first distinguish."
"But the science of the natural philosopher (K) deals with the things that have in themselves a principle of movement."
"This sort of having, then, evidently we cannot have; for the process will go on to infinity, if we can have the having of what we have. '"
"Must we not say 'of any kind'?"
"If we consider the majority of them, there seems to be no case in which the soul can act or be acted upon without involving the body; eg anger, courage, appetite, and sensation generally."
"Surely this is impossible."
"If the actions which we are recounting are too numerous and not familiar to our audience, we shall present them in every case in a connected form and show that they are just, expedient, and honourable, in order that we may not only make our tale plain and unembellished by simply relating facts but may also win the attention of our hearers."
"Property, in the sense of a bare livelihood, seems to be given by nature herself to all, both when they are first born, and when they are grown up."
"Citizens seem to face dangers because of the penalties imposed by the Reading andreio de he d' andreia."
"To praise a man is in one respect akin to urging a course of action."
"Now if what is healthy or good is different for men and for fishes, but what is white or straight is always the same, any one would say that what is wise is the same"
"For whatever the just man can do, the unjust can do; and in general powerlessness is covered by power."
"For the facts which form the starting points in different subjects must be different, as eg in the case of numbers and surfaces."
"Further, if they were different, the process would go on to infinity; for we should have the essence of one, and the one, so that in their case also the same infinite regress would be found."
"This condition is obvious in some individuals; for most atrabilious persons are thin and their veins stand out,"
"Also we pity those who are like us in age, character, disposition, social standing, or birth; for in all these cases it appears more likely that the same misfortune may befall us also."
"If then this is impossible, it is false that A does not belong to some B; so that it is true that A belongs to every."
"May we not, then, conceive this faculty which perceives white and sweet to be one qua indivisible in its actualization, but different, when it has become divisible in its actualization?"
"The vessels are two because the body of every sanguineous animal that is capable of locomotion is bilateral; for in all such animals there is a distinguishable before and behind, a right and left, an above and below."
"For the birds resemble man in this respect."
"For if every affirmation or negation is true or false it is necessary for everything either to be the case or not to be the case."
"Thus all the possible senses are possessed by those animals that are not imperfect or mutilated (for even the mole is observed to have eyes beneath its skin); so that, if there is no fifth element and no property other than those which belong to the four elements of our world, no sense can be wanting to such animals."
"Again, every demonstration proves something of something, ie that it is or is not; but in a definition one thing is not predicated of another eg neither animal of two footed nor this of animal, nor indeed figure of plane (for plane is not figure nor is figure plane)."
"And why has man different forms of speech, while the other animals have not?"
"How is it that if the cord is attached to the upper surface of the beam of a balance, if one takes away the weight when the balance is depressed on one side, the beam rises again; whereas, if the cord is attached to the lower surface of the beam, it does not rise but remains in the same position?"
"From this definition it will follow that fear is caused by whatever we feel has great power of destroying us, or of harming us in ways that tend to cause us great pain."
"spasms are caused by the distention."
"Common terms for all the above are white, animal, man; white, animal, inanimate."
"On the other hand, the same thing seems to be capable of being cut and of not being cut, of being and of not being, so that the necessary to be will be admissible not to be; but this is false."
"Now, however, let us discuss justice."
"Hence the rapidity Reading me dia palaiou."
"The conversion of an appropriate name which is derived from an accident is an extremely precarious thing; for in the case of accidents and in no other it is possible for something to be true in a certain respect and not universally."
"Like the above are also the following arguments."
"All those bodies in which this is not the case are dissolved by water, eg natron, salt, dry mud."
"for that is the opposite of the knowing of like by like."
"When the principles of delivery have been worked out, they will produce the same effect as on the stage."
"This commonplace rule is, however, false; for an affirmation is not a property of a negation, or a negation of an affirmation."
", it follows that A will belong to none of the Es."
"And the reason why movement is thought to be indefinite is that it cannot be classed either with the potentiality of things or with their actuality, for neither that which is capable of being of a certain quantity, nor that which is actually of a certain quantity, is moved of necessity."
"The solution appropriate here, too, is to show that the paradox does not come about because of the argument: whereas this is what your opponent always really wants."
"Those who are called by such names as 'miserly', 'close', 'stingy', all fall short in giving, but do not covet the possessions of others nor wish to get them."
"I mean for instance, if your words are harsh, you should not extend this harshness to your voice and your countenance and have everything else in keeping."
"When snow is violent and falls heavily we call it a blizzard."
"When the heat has concocted the moisture, it will, as a result, rise upward, carrying the juice with it, and the air and sun will draw it out, and the oily juice which forms the fruit will come out, while the moisture will produce the leaves, leaves and fruit coming forth together."
"or when the womb is not so cold as to expel it nor yet so hot as to concoct it?"
"Such then is the way in which we must meet the misrepresentation of having written out our speech."
"Seeing then that such is the better course, and seeing also that of what is possible nature invariably brings about the best, we must conclude that man does not owe his superior intelligence to his hands, but his hands to his superior intelligence."
"We have now to consider what and what kind of government is suitable to what and what kind of men."
"An objection may be raised that in a given respect people may be good by nature, eg they may be generous or temperately inclined, while they are not good by nature without qualification."
"The conclusion then is true, but the propositions are false."
"If these results do not follow it is a sign that the passages of the body, through which the residue is secreted, are clogged and closed."
"This being proved, suppose it possible that A may belong to no and every."
"Why is it that persons in vapour baths perspire more freely when it is cold?"
"Birds of the pigeon kind, such as the ring dove and the turtle dove, lay two eggs at a time as a general rule, and they never lay more than three."
"all perceive an object numerically one and the same; while, of course, in the special object perceived they perceive an object numerically different for each, though specifically the same for all; and this, accordingly, explains how it is that many persons together see, or smell, or hear the same object."
"Further, health, beauty, and the like, as being bodily excellences and productive of many other good things: for instance, health is productive both of pleasure and of life, and therefore is thought the greatest of goods, since these two things which it causes, pleasure and life, are two of the things most highly prized by ordinary people."
"(this being so because by a motion definite in time the quantity both of the motion and of the time is measured): if, then, what is first is the measure of everything homogeneous with it, regular circular motion is above all else the measure, because the number of this is the best known."
"Again, with regard to the breasts and the generative organs, animals differ widely from one another and from man."
"I mean, from all by vote in some cases, by lot in others."
"Similarly, one citizen differs from another, but the salvation of the community is the common business of them all."
"The site of the city should likewise be convenient both for political administration and for war."
"Now the sun colours the skin, but it does not colour the teeth, but the moisture is evaporated out of them by the heat."
"the motion is according to the prevailing element."
"As a proof that they do not live into a second year there is the fact that, after the birth of the little octopuses in the late summer or beginning of autumn, it is seldom that a large sized octopus is visible, whereas a little before this time of year the creature is at its largest."
"We must try, then, to solve this difficulty, for perhaps some one of the statements made cannot be made without qualification, eg the statement that the parts cannot be made by what is external to the semen."
"For people who are puzzled to know whether one ought to honour the gods and love one's parents or not need punishment, while those who are puzzled to know whether snow is white or not need perception."
"A thing, then, will be affected by time, just as we are accustomed to say that time wastes things away, and that all things grow old through time, and that people forget owing to the lapse of time, but we do not say the same of getting to know or of becoming young or fair."
"(This is why all those who contrary to reason either are mastered by or pursue one of the objects which are naturally noble and good, eg those who busy themselves more than they ought about honour or about children and parents for these too are goods, and those who busy themselves about them are praised; but yet there is an excess even in them if like Niobe one were to fight even against the gods, or were to be as much devoted to one's father as Satyrus nicknamed 'the filial', who was thought to be very silly on this point.)"
"We shall treat of them most conveniently if we take them each separately and enumerate their qualities, their uses, and their actions."
"In the first place, each of them, if mated with its own kind, bears only one young one; secondly, the females are not always able to conceive from the male (that is why breeders put the horse to the mare again at intervals)."
"the actions themselves, of which the orator is in no sense author."
"But here, too, we must first discuss for ourselves the difficulties involved; for, as in other matters, so in this nothing has been handed down to us that anyone could not have thought of."
"Rainy weather is wholesome to the generality of shell fish owing to the fact that the sea water then becomes exceptionally sweet."
"which is good for oneself, so that what is to be loved is lovable, but the lovable is not to be loved."
"And this same person again will feel pain, if he sees a man faring ill, who does not deserve it."
"when the negative is not universal: all the rest can be analysed."
"Those, then, who are to join in argument with one another"
"(I mean that eg we may question whether the note given by a single string is one and the same, or is different, although the string is in the same condition and is moved in the same way.)"
"It is for this reason that we say even of non being that it is non being."
"It is common to all the meanings that the element of each thing is the first component immanent in each."
"That what we have said is right, is evident from what all others say about movement, and from the fact that it is not easy to define it otherwise."
"In general, the question 'can a man treat himself unjustly?'"
"Now the good is both good and not bad, the one in itself, the other accidentally (for it is accidental to it to be not bad); but the more true belief about anything is the one about what it is in itself; and if this holds for the true it holds also for the false."
"For the brave man appears rash relatively to the coward, and cowardly relatively to the rash man; and similarly the temperate man appears self indulgent relatively to the insensible man, insensible relatively to the self indulgent, and the liberal man prodigal relatively to the mean man, mean relatively to the prodigal."
"The distinction is unsound; we perceive what is hard or soft, as well as the objects of hearing, sight, and smell, through a medium, only that the latter are perceived over a greater distance than the former; that is why the facts escape our notice."
"It is clear then in this figure also when a deduction will be possible, and when not; and that if the terms are as stated, a deduction results of necessity, and if there is a deduction, the terms must be so related."
"Consequently, there is no special name for the part in which it has its seat; for in some groups of animals it is identical, in others it is analogous."
"Is it because, when the body contains impurities, movement heats it and causes other excretions to exude with the perspiration?"
"But we apprehend time only when we have marked motion, marking it by before and after; and it is only when we have perceived before and after in motion that we say that time has elapsed."
"For if it does not follow the contradictory will follow, 'not possible to be' or if one were to deny that this is the contradictory one must say that 'possible not to be' is; both of which are false of 'necessary to be'."
"as we said before, is the way they copulate; for the females manifestly insert this from below into the males above, not in all cases, but in most of those observed."
"(By form I mean the essence of each thing and its primary substance.)"
"You must show that you are yourself pleading as a favour, and say that your opponent pleads for no small payment; for he is going to law that he may make money unjustly, not in order to avoid having to pay it."
"Not but that the defect on the part of the one is plain to see in the case of such persons as have the same end in view in their friendship; for instance, if both are friends to one another on the ground of utility or of pleasure or of excellence."
"Ruelle marks a lacuna here."
"Let be a circle, and let the point at the summit be displaced to, and come eventually to."
"For this reason the patient ought to be well wrapped up, because fire is extinguished if it is not allowed to draw in air; and the garments ought not to be removed until damp heat is present, for the fire if exposed to the air dries up the moisture just as happens also in nature."
"Hence, by deduction, what has nothing heavy or light in it, is void."
"It may be that some of the terms thus related have no special name of their own, but for all that they will be described in just the same way."
"Likewise, also, if he has said that knowing is remembering; for the one is concerned with past time, whereas the other has to do also with the present and the future."
"Fishes are caught in greatest abundance before sunrise and after sunset, or, speaking generally, just about sunset and sunrise."
"Further, the state is by nature clearly prior to the family and to the individual, since the whole is of necessity prior to the part; for example, if the whole body be destroyed, there will be no foot or hand, except homonymously, as we might speak of a stone hand; for when destroyed the hand will be no better than that."
"What then is the difference?"
"Similarly if the deduction is negative; for if it should be assumed that A belongs to every, both are refuted; but if the assumption is that A belongs to some, neither is."
"If of one, why of this rather than of any other?"
"If the opposite of the species is a privation, there are two ways of demolishing an argument."
"Love then aims at affection rather than at intercourse."
"For if the ultimate thing be a point, then the limit to the indivisible line will be a point, and one line will be longer than another by a point."
"poiei (and omitting me in line."
"For the actually hot is potentially cold and the actually cold potentially hot; so that hot and cold, unless they are equally balanced, are transformed into one another (and all the other contraries behave in a similar way)."
"On this very question they inquire more deeply and in a more scientific fashion, Euripides saying that 'parched earth loves the rain, and stately heaven when filled with rain loves to fall to earth', and Heraclitus"
"There is no creature known to prey upon the spawn of the cephalus, so that the species is exceedingly numerous; when, however, the fish is fullgrown it is preyed upon by a number of fishes, and especially by the bass."
"Now we say that the thing is moved both by the last and by the first of the movers, but more strictly by the first, since the first moves the last, whereas the last does not move the first, and the first will move the thing without the last, but the last will not move it without the first:"
"and so does the size of the eyes."
"an octave, like the fourth and the fifth?"
"The reason is that it is in its nature intermediate between white and black; thus the change is not a large one nor, so to say, contrary to nature; at least, it is not a change into another nature."
"If not, is the womb drier at first, later growing moist?"
"But we have already shown that this is impossible."
"Nor, on the other hand, are reason and choice quite completed as excellence without the natural impulse."
"Again, if body is distinguished from body by the appropriate qualitative difference, and there is a limit to the number of differences (for the difference lies in qualities apprehended by sense, which are in fact finite in number, though this requires proof), then manifestly there is necessarily a limit to the number of elements."
"But ex hypothesi it belongs to no, so that it is false that A belongs to some."
"Their ribs are as numerous as the days of the month; in other words, they are thirty in number."
"The squinting of the eyes is due to the fact that the eyeballs possess a moving principle and turn, to a certain extent, upwards and downwards and sideways."
"For what alters and transfigures plays a greater part in bringing things into being; and we are everywhere accustomed, in the products of nature and of art alike, to look upon that which can initiate movement as the producing cause."
"The ancients observed this principle when they gave guards to anyone whom they appointed Aesymnete or tyrant."
"One reason for this is that it rises from hollow and water places, so that the heat that is raising it, bearing as it were too heavy a burden, cannot lift it to a great height but soon lets it fall again."
"So only moves itself."
"Again, revolutions occur when great men who are at least of equal excellence are denied honours by those higher in office, as Lysander was by the kings of Sparta; or, when a brave man is excluded from the honours of the state, like Cinadon, who conspired against the Spartans in the reign of Agesilaus; or, again, when some are very poor and others very rich, a state of society which is most often the result of war, as at Lacedaemon in the days of the Messenian War; this is proved from the poem of Tyrtaeus, entitled 'Good Order'; for he speaks of certain citizens who were ruined by the war and wanted to have a redistribution of the land."
"But the followers of Anaxagoras regard the 'homoeomeries' as simple and elements, whilst they affirm that Earth, Fire, Water, and Air are composite; for each of these is (according to them) a seed bed of the 'homoeomeries'."
"The differentiae of genera which are differe and not subordinate one to the other are themselves different in kind."
"They become somewhat lazy if the bee keeper, in drawing the honey, leaves behind too much; still one should leave cells numerous in proportion to the population, for the bees work in a spiritless way if too few combs are left."
"The story goes that the companions of Diomedes were metamorphosed into these, when they had been shipwrecked off the island and Diomedes was treacherously slain by Aeneas, who was then king of those regions."
"Hence, too, in learning and in forming judgements on matters relating to their sense perceptions children are inferior to adults owing to the great amount of restlessness and motion in their souls."
"But as to health and disease, not only the physician but also the natural scientist must, up to a point, give an account of their causes."
"There are thus two mutually exclusive infinites, which is impossible."
"The result is then that either one of its parts is larger than the others, as a finger or hand or foot or any of the other extremities or limbs; or again if the embryo is cleft there may come into being more than one, as eddies do in rivers; as the water in these is carried along with a certain motion, if it dash against anything two systems come into being out of one, each retaining the same motion; the same thing happens also with the embryos."
"And at Syracuse the democracy aroused contempt before the tyranny of Gelo arose; at Rhodes, before the insurrection."
"For the combined denial of opposites applies when there is an intermediate and a certain natural interval; but in the other case there is no difference; for the things, the denials of which are combined, belong to different classes, so that the substratum is not one."
"But when the heat which was raising it leaves it, in part dispersing to the higher region, in part quenched through rising so far into the upper air, then the vapour cools because its heat is gone and because of the place, and condenses again and turns from air into water."
"For there is nothing to prevent the same thing from being both man and white and countless other things: but still if one asks whether it is true to call this a man or not our opponent must give an answer which means one thing, and not add that it is also white and large."
"The form is a kind of power in matter a duct, as it were."
"Further, that which has a movement has also the contrary movement and rest, and that which comes to be also ceases to be."
"There are few facts of the necessary type that can form the basis of rhetorical deductions."
"For these things extend right through life, with a weight and power of their own in respect both to excellence and to the happy life, since men choose what is pleasant and avoid what is painful; and such things, it will be thought, we should least of all omit to discuss, especially since they admit of much dispute."
"And we feel more shame about a thing if it Marked by Kassel as a later addition by himself."
"Since we can distinguish between a magnitude and what it is to be a magnitude, and between water and what it is to be water, and so in many other cases (though not in all; for in certain cases the thing and its form are identical), flesh Retaining de auton."
"Obscurity is also caused if, when you intend to insert a number of details, you do not first make your meaning clear; for instance, if you say, 'I meant, after telling him this, that, and the other thing, to set out', rather than something of this kind 'I meant to set out after telling him; then this, that, and the other thing occurred'."
"For if both and belong to every, should one of the Ss, eg, be taken, both and will belong to this, and thus will belong to some."
"Why is it that running in clothing and anointing the body under the clothing with oil makes men pale skinned, whereas running naked makes them ruddy?"
"Is it because they involve abrupt change, for they necessitate coming often to a standstill?"
"But the senses which involve a reference to capacity all refer to the primary kind of capacity; and this is a source of change in another thing or in the same thing qua other."
"The creature, also, at once turns black in colour and harder and larger, and takes to singing."
"Why are the angles of the triangle equal to two right angles?"
"Lobsters and carids copulate in like manner."
"Again, these numbers must either be separable from things, or not separable but in sensible things (not however in the way which we first considered, but in the sense that sensible things consist of numbers which are present in them) either some of them and not others, or all of them."
"Let it be for A, and for."
"And nature assigns to each of the residues the part fitted to receive it."
"Again, that they should collect honey is reasonable, for it is their food, but it is strange that they should collect the young if they are neither their own offspring nor food."
"Next, for destructive purposes, see if the property has been given by way of participation; for then what is stated to be a property will not be a property."
"they say contrary things, and admit afterwards what they have previously denied; for which reason they often assent, when questioned, to contrary things and to what originally had to be proved the argument is sure to become vitiated."
"while to treat others well is a laborious task."
"Thus it is possible for there to be several explanations of the same thing, but not for things of the same species eg the explanation of longevity for quadrupeds"
"In a word, all the causes which I have mentioned as destroying the last and most unmixed form of oligarchy, and the extreme form of democracy, may be assumed to affect tyranny; indeed the extreme forms of both are only tyrannies distributed among several persons."
"Moreover, where the hailstones are large, the cause of their freezing must be present in the highest degree; for hail is ice, as every one can see."
"Now plants contain no excretion."
"Further, the various parts in the same creature differ in density and rarity, and in other qualities, so that the blending of their constituents cannot be identical; for, granted that coarseness and fineness, greatness and smallness are quantitative differences, hardness, density, and the opposites certainly depend on the qualitative nature of the mixing."
"that all are not white or that each is not white, while that each is not white or all are not white is false."
"But he who is tipsy uses his judgement, but, owing to the wine which he has drunk, he uses it amiss, and so is troublesome in his cups."
"But if the propositions are not similar in quality, suppose first that the negative is necessary, and let A be possible for no, but let be possible for every."
"Things are practicable in two senses: it is possible to do them, it is easy to do them."
"Having spoken of the generation of all insects, we must now speak of the testacea."
"What pleasure is, or what kind of thing it is, will become plainer if we take up the question again from the beginning."
"For he who is nearer perceives the odour sooner, and the sound of a stroke reaches us some time after it has been struck."
"The treatment is to feed on mulberries, to give repeated warm baths, and to lance the under part of the tongue."
"This was what happened in the case of the Four Hundred, who deceived the people by telling them that the king would provide money for the war against the Lacedaemonians, and, having cheated the people, still endeavoured to retain the government."
"Of the hard and dry homogeneous parts bone, fish spine, sinew, bloodvessel, are examples."
"Why can one see more accurately with one eye than with both eyes?"
"The spine is composed of vertebrae, and it extends from the head down to the loins."
", in the void things must be at rest; for there is no place to which things can move more or less than to another; since the void in so far as it is void admits no difference."
"Such are the accounts given by Syennesis and Diogenes."
"There are, then, these two views about friendship; and they are too general and far removed."
"how, we shall discuss hereafter; and the gullet, in all that have the organ, extends through the diaphragm into the stomach."
"It lies with its tapering portion upon the aorta, and this portion is similarly situated in relation to the chest in all animals that have a chest."
"For the movement is due to the sea and not to wind, being a movement of the sea which travels more quickly than that of the air."
"The rule of a household is a monarchy, for every house is under one head: whereas constitutional rule is a government of freemen and equals."
"Similarly with remaining: remaining above is contrary to motion from above downwards, and to earth"
"The tortoises, which are comprised among animals with scaly plates, form the only exception; and this is merely due to the imperfect development of their natural conformation; the explanation of the matter being that in the sea tortoises the lung is flesh like and contains blood, resembling the lung of the ox, and that in the land tortoises it is of disproportionately large size."
"Everyone who effects persuasion through proof does in fact use either enthymemes or examples: there is no other way."
"Secondly, a prejudice is created against a man, if he is a frequent speaker, for it looks as if he were a busybody; or again, against a man who has never spoken before, for it looks as if he had some motive of private gain in thus speaking in public contrary to his usual custom."
"When we say 'free from fear', it is not to be understood that the brave man feels no fear at all."
"Now this movement, when it is only slight, is quickly absorbed by the sun, so that no wind occurs; but when it is greater, the movement is increased when the sun rises, for the sun is a source of movement."
"For the differentia is never an accidental attribute, any more than the genus is; for the differentia of a thing cannot both belong and not belong to it."
"But when one has knowledge or perception apart from the objects, he thus remembers as to the former, that he learned it, or thought it out for himself, as to the latter, that he heard, or saw, it or had some sensible experience of it."
"(This is why we call temperance by this name; we imply that it preserves one's practical wisdom."
"Of course the subject of increase, when changed qua^ increasable, attains not health but a superior size."
"But in Insects and in Cephalopods the plan is entirely different, there being moreover a contrast between these two themselves."
"if it is a square or a circle or a sphere, it cannot be infinite, any more than a foot long line can."
"See Prior Analytics I. 'Evidence' renders tekmerion which connects, via tekmar, with peras and peperasmenos ('completed')."
"It is better, for instance, to say 'rosy fingered morn', than 'crimson fingered' or, worse still, 'red fingered morn'."
"The arts, too, apparently imitate nature in this respect."
"The embryo, then, grows by means of the umbilicus in the same way as a plant by its root, or as animals themselves, when separated, from the nutriment within themselves of this we must speak later at the time appropriate for discussing them."
"In the epic owing to its scale every part is treated at proper length; with a drama, however, on the same story the result is very disappointing."
"For it is only natural that that which is composed of smaller particles should be that which finds its way into something else."
"If a man has often achieved the same success, we must Kassel marks this and the following paragraph as a later addition by himself."
"The existence of things of this kind is clear to all; but we wish to explain also the nature of each of the other two kinds and show that there are some things that are always unmoved and some things that are always in motion."
"even if the process never reaches completion, at any rate it never returns upon itself again to its starting point, it goes on assuming a fresh middle term or extreme, and moves straight forward, but circular movement returns to its starting point); and definitions are all limited."
"of the soldier's death."
"For usually the same person is called by one man his own son whom another calls his own brother or cousin or kinsman blood relation or connexion by marriage either of himself or of some relation of his, and yet another his clansman or tribesman; and"
"Since it is impossible for that of which there is understanding simpliciter to be otherwise,"
"(yet one may prove of a figure that it has two right angles but not of a chance figure, nor does one use a chance figure in proving it; for the quadrangle is a figure"
"Again, the South wind is moist, and the upper region of the atmosphere is unfavourable to moisture; so any moisture which is formed in it is quickly dissolved."
"a part of statesmanship."
"Hence there are two principal forms of government, democracy and oligarchy; for good birth and excellence are rare, but wealth and numbers are more common."
"Plainly the former, the more so inasmuch as it is the more valuable part that is in a bad condition."
"So that the same word may obviously be at once strange and ordinary, though not in reference to the same people; sigynon, for instance, is an ordinary word in Cyprus, and a strange word with us."
"We must make our search as all do in other things they search having something to start with; so here, by means of true but indistinct judgements, we should always try to attain to what is true and distinct."
"For they are observed to run away from any loud noise, such as would be made by the rowing of a galley, so as to become easy of capture in their holes; for though a sound be very slight in the open air, it has a loud and alarming resonance to creatures that hear under water."
"though, perhaps, it is truer to say that the arts themselves achieve these different results, for that by using fire as an instrument they soften, liquefy, and desiccate substances, and some they temper."
"But goodwill is not even friendly feeling."
"Further, if one body is in continuity with another, it is not moved in that but with that."
"so too that he said he would recognize the bow which he had not seen; but to suppose from that that he would know it again was bad reasoning."
"Of these birds, the eleus is somewhat larger than thedomestic cock, and the Aegolian owl is of about the same size as the eleus, and both these birds hunt the jay; the little horned owl is smaller than the common owl."
"Now the salamander is a clear case in point, to show us that animals do actually exist that fire cannot destroy; for this creature, so the story goes, not only walks through the fire but puts it out in doing so."
"Moreover, the external contact, opposing by its pressure the natural impetus of the flesh, makes it compact and drives it back upon itself."
"First then let us lay down how many questions we have to consider."
"The female, then, reaches maturity more rapidly than the male, but in the womb the case is reversed, just as is observed in the human species; and the same phenomenon is observed in the case of all animals that bear several young."
"He does not indeed do this willingly, but rather flees from the animal; but when the hunters, having caught and roasted it, sprinkle it, like white meal, over some other animal, they say that the lion, after tasting it, dies on the spot."
"Prudence is that excellence of the understanding which enables men to come to wise decisions about the relation to happiness of the goods and evils that have been previously mentioned."
"It is true that Anaxagoras plausibly says that flesh out of the food is added to the flesh."
"For to be man is different from to be unmusical, and to be unformed from to be bronze."
"Successful similes also, as has been said above, are in a sense metaphors, since they always involve two relations like the proportional metaphor."
"The examination may take different forms; first of all see if the contrary as well is found in the same genus, supposing the genus to have no contrary; for contraries ought to be found in the same genus, if there is no contrary to the genus."
"And this identical thing is genus or species; for all things that differ differ either in genus or in species, in genus if the things have not their matter in common and are not generated out of each other (i.e. if they belong to different figures of predication), and in species if they have the same genus (the genus is that same thing which both the different things are said to be in respect of their substance)."
"And the facts prove this."
"If then A is assumed to belong to the whole of, and not to follow some, the propositions are false but the conclusion is true."
"All the other elements with the exception of earth can constitute organs of sense, but all of them bring about perception only through something else, viz."
"Excellence brings about this agreement, and the political art exists to make them agree for those to whom"
"As a rule, it is seen in flocks and not singly; it is ashen coloured all over, and about the size of the birds"
"When he was making war in the neighbourhood of Corcyra and was in difficulties, and the soldiers were demanding their pay and refusing to obey him and threatening to go over to the enemy, he called together an assembly and told them that no money could reach him owing to the stormy weather though he had, he declared, such an abundance of supplies that he offered them as a free gift the three months' rations which they had already received."
"Now we have said that a joint is the origin of one part of a limb, the end of another."
"His work being for public performance, a good poet often stretches out a plot beyond its capabilities, and is thus obliged to twist the sequence of incident."
"This, however, does not touch our argument."
"There will be no absolute distinction between fire, water, and air, but one and the same body will be relatively to this fire, relatively to something else air."
"Of hairy animals, man alone has lashes on both lids."
"Clearly, then, those named after these habits will be similarly opposed to one another, ie the coward, for he is so called from fearing more than he ought and being less confident than he ought, and the foolhardy man, who is so called for fearing less than he ought and being more confident that he ought."
"So is 'God kindled our reason to be a lamp within our souls', for both reason and light reveal things."
"The higher as well as the lower elements are to be equally considered parts of the state, and if so, the military element at any rate must be included."
"Such then is the method which those who have been misrepresented in the past must adopt in public speaking in order to refute misrepresentation."
"Now it suited the merchants better to sell their cargoes wholesale rather than retail."
"For the strength of such an animal is in its teeth, and these depend for their efficiency on their sharpness."
"If one were to remove the earth to where the moon now is, the various fragments of earth would each move not towards it but to the place in which it now is."
"Now barley gruel has these qualities; for, because it is moist rather than substantial, it gives nourishment which is small in bulk and at the same time has a cooling effect."
"In the Analyti a more explicit description has been given of these points; it is there shown why some of these reasonings can be put into deductions and some cannot."
"There is a large number of small islands round the British Isles and Iberia, forming a belt round the inhabited world, which as we have already said is itself an island."
"The name of a stone has dropped out of the text."
"Some are becoming to a gentleman, others are not; see that you choose such as become you."
"Nor do such distinctions (up and down and right and left) hold only in relation to us."
"The difference between this one and the last is that, whereas in the last any two things are contrasted, here the things contrasted are opposites."
"How strange, too, to forbid intercourse for no other reason than the violence of the pleasure, as though the relationship of father and son or of brothers with one another made no difference."
"For how, he says, could any one communicate by word of mouth that which he has seen?"
"The body, then, is turned into spheres or pyramids."
"but rather when it has already become seed, and perhaps not even then, as not everything can be healed by the medical art or by chance, but there is a certain kind of thing which is capable of it, and only this is potentially healthy."
"Hence the body in question would have been present in our world here, alongside air and fire and earth and water; but nothing of the kind is observed."
"One great advantage of maxims to a speaker is due to the want of intelligence in his hearers, who love to hear him succeed in expressing as a universal truth the opinions which they hold themselves about particular cases."
"The cup accordingly will be described as the 'shield of Dionysus' and the shield as the 'cup of Ares'."
"did right to reply, 'The time is not yet'. '"
"them, that he purposed to do them often, that he did them over a long period, that no one else ever tried to do them, that he acted in company with others with whom no one else ever acted, or following those whom no one else ever followed, or that he acted voluntarily or designedly, and that we should be fortunate, or unfortunate, if we all did as he did."
"But nevertheless we maintain that a thing may come to be from what is not in a qualified sense, ie accidentally."
"For in oligarchies there is the double danger of the oligarchs falling out among themselves and also with the people; but in democracies there is only the danger of a quarrel with the oligarchs."
"In their case if you place the object on the organ it is not perceived, here if you place it on the flesh it is perceived; therefore flesh is the medium of touch."
"But A is supposed to belong to every or to some."
"For concave and convex are not only regarded as opposed to one another, but they are also coupled together and treated as a unity in opposition to the straight."
"For it is possible that a thing may for the same man appear as honey to the sight, but not to the taste, and that, as we have two eyes, things may not appear the same to each, if the eyes are unlike."
"Every man should be responsible to others, nor should anyone be allowed to do just as he pleases; for where absolute freedom is allowed there is nothing to restrain the evil which is inherent in every man."
"They run through the throat inside; and from either one of the two there extend veins in underneath the shoulder blade and towards the hands; and these appear alongside the splenetic and hepatitic veins as another pair of veins smaller in size."
"We have thus explained how the first and best form of democracy should be constituted; it is clear that the other or inferior sorts will deviate in a regular order, and the population which is excluded will at each stage be of a lower kind."
"But ex hypothesi is in motion in its own right and primarily."
"All the afore mentioned animals have a stomach, and one similarly situated, that is to say, situated directly under the midriff; and they have a gut connected therewith and closing at the outlet of the food at what is termed the rectum."
"why is sound produced in the clouds?"
"We have explained then why some animals naturally produce many young, some but few, and some only one; in the difficulty now stated we may rather be surprised with reason at those which produce many, since such animals are often seen to conceive from a single copulation."
"It is chiefly and most properly paid to those who have already done good; but also to the man who can do good in future."
"Men that have the inside of the foot thick and not arched, that is, that walk resting on the entire under surface of their feet, are prone to roguery."
"Let us again return to the subject of our inquiry, which is substance."
"Regarding laws, then, of which the meaning is clear, we shall easily be able, by such methods of anticipation, to speak against any of them with which we are concerned."
"But even here the holder of the theory ought not only to assert the fact: he ought also to explain the cause of it; ie he should not make any mere assumption or lay down any unreasoned axiom, but should employ either inductive or demonstrative reasoning."
"Is it in the part of the just man to put himself on a level with everybody in his intercourse (I mean in the way of becoming all things to all men)?"
"Again, is it warm by its inherent nature or by the influence of something else?"
"when it is regular; for in a sense a motion that is irregular is not regarded as one, that title belonging rather to that which is regular, as a straight line is regular, the irregular being divisible."
"They further construct another earth in opposition to ours to which they give the name counter earth."
"For these are between the birds of prey and the heavy ones; they are flyers like the former, but have bulky bodies like the latter; hence, because they are flyers and the residue is diverted that way, they lay few eggs, but they lay often because of their having bulky bodies and their stomachs being hot and very active in concoction, and because moreover they can easily procure their food, whereas the birds of prey do so with difficulty."
"Is it because in the former the nutriment in that part is unconcocted, because there is a continual influx along the root; while the latter are naturally dry, and so, when the sweetness is drawn off from the extremity and has become concocted, they are henceforward dry and the bitterness is left behind like salt?"
"As we have remarked above, the discharge is wont to be more abundant in women than in the females of any other animals."
"The friendship, then, of the best men is that which arises from excellence, but that of the common run of men depends upon utility, while that which rests on pleasure is found among vulgar and commonplace persons."
"What happens here must be analogous to what happens in the case of light; light is always reflected otherwise it would not be diffused and outside what was directly illuminated by the sun"
"Likewise, also, if the destruction of knowledge is in some cases a good thing or its production an evil thing, then knowledge will be in some cases an evil thing; eg if for a man to forget his disgraceful conduct is a good thing, or to remember it an evil thing, then the knowledge of his disgraceful conduct is an evil thing."
"For these quantities are the objects of sense perception."
"A vowel is a letter having an audible sound without the addition of another letter."
"There must therefore be some end to locomotion: it cannot continue to infinity."
"This then is a gain to the epic, tending to give it grandeur, and also variety of interest and room for episodes of diverse kinds."
"Every substance is by nature a sort of principle; therefore each can produce many similar to itself, as man man, animals in general animals, and plants plants."
"Is it because their condition is a state resembling apoplexy of some interior part of the body which they cannot move and which by its coldness hinders their speech?"
"Again, is the nature of all those solids uniform, or do they differ from one another as if,.g."
"And will that pleasure be an impediment?"
"The bird catcher usually catches it by help of the owl."
"Surely it will not be thought to be this!"
"These remarks apply equally to both parents."
"Among water animals the cetaceans may give rise to some perplexity, though they too can be rationally explained."
"Some people further assert that the circumference of a circle keeps up a continual motion, just as bodies which are at rest remain so owing to their resistance."
"They all are water modified by a certain admixture, the nature of which determines their flavour."
"Why is the air from bubbles and the air which comes up from beneath the water never wet?"
"Here we certainly have a sign; but even though the proposition is true, the argument is refutable, since it does not form a deduction."
"Each class of men, each type of disposition, will have its own appropriate way of letting the truth appear."
"For wisdom will contemplate none of the things that will make a man happy (for it is not concerned with any coming into being), and though practical wisdom has this merit, for what purpose do we need it?"
"Thus the line will be composed of points; for the point, as it continually traverses a distance equal to itself, will be a measure of the whole line."
"It is useful also to take a look at individual instances, in cases where some attribute has been said to belong or not to belong, as in the case of universal problems."
"In general, too, a means directed towards the end of life is more desirable than a means to anything else, eg that which contributes to happiness than that which contributes to prudence."
"In no case, however, does nature ever give more than one adequate means of protection to one and the same animal."
"Nor is the differentia thought to partake of the genus; for what partakes of the genus is always either a species or an individual, whereas the differentia is neither a species nor an individual."
"So those who are grasping with regard to these things gratify their appetites and in general their feelings and the irrational element of the soul; and most men are of this nature thus the epithet has taken its meaning from the prevailing type of self love, which is a bad one); it is just, therefore, that men who are lovers of self in this way are reproached for being so."
"Surely with the greatest; for no one is more likely than he to stand his ground against what is dreadful."
"In the case of these animals this motion is not sufficient for refrigeration, but in insects it is."
"If then any one says that joyfulness is an accidental attribute of cheerfulness, he would be declaring it to be an accidental attribute of Literally: 'the man who hopes for good things is hopeful (euelpis)'."
"Compare with Empedocles says: 'They are one and the same, hair and leaves and the thick wings of birds and scales that grow on stout limbs.'"
"That in virtue of which', then, in the primary sense is the form, and in a secondary sense the matter of each thing and the proximate substratum of each."
"Besides, an emotional speaker always makes his audience feel with him, even when there is nothing in his arguments"
"This is indicated, too, by the fact that the other animals have no share in happiness, being completely deprived of such activity."
"For as men differ in appearance not because they possess faces but because they possess certain kinds of faces, some handsome, others ugly, others with nothing remarkable about them (those, that is, who are naturally ordinary); so those who possess an atrabilious temperament in a slight degree are ordinary, but those who have much of it are quite unlike the majority of people."
"If a hair be cut, it does not grow at the point of section; but it gets longer by growing upward from below."
"If a man cannot at the same time be pained and pleased, at all events after a short time he is pained because he was pleased, and he could have wished that these things had not been pleasant to him; for bad men are laden with regrets."
"All the animals move the lower jaw, with the exception of the river crocodile; this creature moves the upper jaw only."
"Of oligarchies, too, there are different kinds: one where the property qualification for office is such that the poor, although they form the majority, have no share in the government, yet he who acquires a qualification may obtain a share."
"Whether the account be correct or has not yet been verified; I give it merely as it is currently told."
"And in general we must not forget that it is possible to refute statements by means of one another, I mean, universal statements by means of particular, and particular statements by means of universal; but it is not possible to establish universal statements by means of particular, though it is possible to establish particular statements by means of universal."
"When the law fixes a definite punishment, he must show that he has not committed the offence at all, or that he has acted legally and justly."
"These details carry conviction: the audience take the truth of what they know as so much evidence for the truth of what they do not."
"For these are the parts which require most protection, seeing that they are the main governing powers of life, and that it is to governing powers that guard is due."
"There is no art of pleasure; but every good is the product of some art."
"For if it is not so rendered, clearly a mistake has been made."
"What share insolence and avarice have in creating revolutions, and how they work, is plain enough."
"The so called robberbees spoil their own combs, and, if they can do so unnoticed, enter the combs of other bees; if they are caught in the act they are put to death."
"Is it because unmixed wine is composed of heavy particles and so does not find its way into the pores of the head, which are narrow, but only its power, namely its odour and heat, reaches the head?"
"That is what appeals to incontinent persons and incontinence may be shown with regard to all the objects of desire."
"In addition to this we have been through the subject of fallacies, as we have already Reading soloikismos for syllogismos."
"For the heat fails and contracts; that is also why the bowels usually are loosened."
"The saupe breeds once a year only, in the autumn."
"But there is no necessity for there being a void if there is movement."
"This pleasure and pain of his will be the token of his good wishes for you, since we all feel glad at getting what we wish for, and pained at getting what we do not."
"but each is one in number and a 'this' and not homonymous (and again they suppose each thing in itself to be one)."
"This again admits of a rational explanation."
"Whole and complete are either quite identical or closely akin."
"The heart also is attached to the windpipe, by connexions of fat, gristle, and sinew; and at the point of juncture there is a hollow."
"So that to say that the things that come into being form a circle is to say that there is a circle of time; and this is to say that it is measured by the circular movement; for apart from the measure nothing else is observed in what is measured; the whole is just a plurality of measures."
"Each of the elements has thus found its partisan, except earth earth has found no supporter unless we count as such those who have declared soul to be, or to be compounded of, all the elements."
"There is not only the absurdity of our hearing nothing, the ground of which they try to remove, but also the fact that no effect other than sensitive is produced upon us."
"For as men may know the same thing in many ways, we say that he who knows what a thing is by the characteristics it has knows more fully than he who knows it by the characteristics it has not, and in the former class itself one knows more fully than another, and he knows most fully who knows what a thing is, not he who knows its quantity or quality or what it can by nature do or have done to it; and further in all other cases also (i.e. where demonstration is possible) we think that the knowledge of each thing is present when we know what it is, eg what squaring a rectangle is, viz."
"I mean that the matter and the seed and that which is capable of seeing, which are potentially a man and corn and seeing, but not yet actually so, are prior in time to this particular man who now exists actually, and to the corn and to the (T) seeing subject; but they are posterior in time to other actually existing things, from which they were produced."
"Things are said kekosmesthai after the kosmos."
"But he who is of such a nature as to shrink from having anything good would not seem to be noble and good."
", then the object in question will not exhibit it;"
": it happened once to a woman who had been with a man and thought she had conceived; the bulk of her womb increased and at first everything else happened in the expected way."
"States are those things in virtue of which we stand in a good or bad relation to these feelings; for instance, towards being angered: if we are angry overmuch, we stand in a bad I relation towards anger, whereas if we are not angry at all where we ought to be, in that case also we stand in a bad relation towards anger."
"Again, we have evidence in the praise and blame that are accorded."
"For just as the organ of smell in elephants answers several uses, serving alike as a weapon and for purposes of nutrition"
"In the Art of Poetry, as we have already said, will be found definitions of these kinds of words; a classification of metaphors; and mention of the fact that metaphor is of great value both in poetry and in prose."
"Therefore chance and thought are concerned with the same sphere; for choice cannot exist without thought."
"(Compare the case of Man, who won a contest at the Olympic games; in his case the general formula of man differed little from the one peculiar to him, but yet it was different.)"
"There must be some difference between such a unit and all the other units, and what difference can there be between one unit point and another except a difference of position?"
"For when this has become powerless all the other sensory organs also must lack power to perceive; but when one of them has become powerless, it is not necessary for this also to lose its power."
"Why is it that those who have sexual intercourse or are capable of it have an evil odour and"
"It will be the same with one freeman in relation to another."
"Animals then have been categorized into terrestrial and aquatic in three ways, according to their taking in of air or of water, the constitution of their bodies, or the character of their food; and the mode of life of an animal corresponds to the category in which it is found."
"And, further, does combination exist in fact, or is it false to assert its existence?"
"One kind proves some affirmative or negative proposition; the other kind disproves one."
"or does not the iron slip more than the hand and fail to grasp the tooth all round, since the flesh of the fingers being soft both adheres to and fits round the tooth better?"
"There are three kinds of disposition, then, two of them vices, involving excess and deficiency and one an excellence, viz."
"For instance when the stone at Aegospotami fell out of the air it had been carried up by a wind and fell down in the daytime then too a comet happened to have appeared in the west."
"Thus, in the account of man, the addition 'capable of receiving knowledge' is superfluous; for strike it out, and still the account is proper and makes clear his substance."
"Alone among solids they leave the sphere undivided, as not possessing more than one surface; for the division into surfaces is not just dividing a whole by cutting into its parts, but division into parts different in form."
"For some construct these out of the forms of great and small; eg lines from long and short, planes from broad and narrow; masses from deep and shallow; which are forms of great and small."
"The bee, when quite young and in fact only three days old, after shedding its chrysaliscase, begins to work if it be well fed."
"Motion, then, being eternal, the first mover, if there is but one, will be eternal also; if there are more than one, there will be a plurality of such eternal movers."
"but the skin does not change at all in consequence of the winds and the sun."
"Responsibility makes them more serious: they have to keep paying attention to the duties their position involves."
"But every residue is either of useless or useful nutriment; by 'useless' I mean that from which nothing further is contributed to natural growth, but which is particularly mischievous to the body if too much of it is consumed; by 'useful' I mean the opposite."
"This genus is common to both elements, for, while most species comprehended therein are land animals, a small minority, to wit the aquatic species,"
"When king Alexander commanded him to found a city near the Pharos and to establish there the mart which was formerly held at Canopus, he sailed to Canopus and told the priests and the owners of property there that he had come to transfer them."
"Again, if the semen comes from all parts of both parents alike, the result is two animals; for the offspring will have all the parts of both."
"The following are examples of the way in which to lay your subject before your hearers and make it clear to them: '"
"They must also mention any point in which they are at a disadvantage compared with their opponents, whether in word or deed or anything else which concerns the suit; and they must further introduce the considerations of justice, legality, expediency, and the like."
"Nothing, then, is gained even if we suppose eternal substances, as the believers in the Forms do, unless there is to be in them some principle which can cause movement; and even this is not enough, nor is another substance besides the Forms enough; for if it does not act, there will be no movement."
"For if not even evil doers should Anger us if they meant not what they did, Then can we owe no gratitude to such As"
"Moreover contraries also suffer action, in accordance with the definition established in the early part of this work."
"Hence those who are suffering from inflammation of the lungs and those who are mad both desire wine, though the lungs of the former are hot owing to the fever, and those of the latter owing to their state of disturbance."
"Now to define first principles is just what answerers do not care to do, nor do they pay any attention if the questioner makes a definition; and yet until it is clear what it is that is proposed, it is not easy to tackle it."
"and it comes to a stand."
"Xenophanes and Melissus;"
"To declare a thing to be universally true when it is not is most appropriate when working up feelings of horror and indignation in our hearers; especially by way of preface, or after the facts have been proved."
"Their way of life, too, is not in accordance with the spirit of the constitution they have a deal too much license; whereas, in the case of the other citizens, the excess of strictness is so intolerable that they run away from the law into the secret indulgence of sensual pleasures."
"The figures must have their principles, and, whether these are one or two or more, the simple bodies must be the same in number as they."
"Practical wisdom also is identified especially with that form of it which is concerned with a man himself with the individual; and this is known by the general name 'practical wisdom'; of the other kinds one is called household management, another legislation, the third politics, and of the last one part is called deliberative and the other judicial."
"There is grief, indeed, at his loss, but pleasure in remembering him and as it were seeing him before us in his deeds and in his life."
"Since therefore is equal to the angles which subtend them at Reading ou dokei."
"For the purpose of the stone is to contain the seed."
"There can be no doubt that the possession of a moderate naval force is advantageous to a city; the city should be formidable not only to its own citizens but to some of its neighbours, or, if necessary, able to assist them by sea as well as by land."
"Again, the colour is continuous with the light and the light with the sight."
"Since most hues are the result of the blending of several colours, the hues of plants must certainly also be due to the same blends; for the moisture percolating through the plants washes and carries along with it all the ingredients on which their colours depend."
"(it is clear that they are not separated either in coming to be or in ceasing to be); and similarly with 'one', so that it is obvious that the addition in these cases means the same thing, and unity is nothing apart from being; and if, further, the essence of each thing is one in no merely accidental way, and similarly is from its very nature something that is:"
"But when we come to those things which come into being without falling under the heads just mentioned, their cause must be sought in the movement or process of coming into being, on the view that the differences which mark them arise in the actual formation of the animal."
"Let us first speak of the possible and impossible."
"It is not knowledge; for men do not inquire about the things they know about, but good deliberation is a kind of deliberation, and"
"So we see that the way in which they now draw maps of the earth is ridiculous."
"For when orators wish to show that a man is an adulterer, they take hold of some consequence that the man is smartly dressed, or that he is observed to wander about at night."
"Man pairs and breeds at all seasons, as is the case also withdomesticated animals, owing to the shelter and good feeding they enjoy: that is to say, with those whose period of gestation is also comparatively brief, as the sow and the bitch, and with those birds that breed frequently."
"A further indication that bees are produced without copulation is the fact that the brood appears small in the cells of the comb, whereas, whenever insects are generated by copulation, the parents remain united for a long time but produce quickly something of the nature of a grub and of a considerable size."
"It might indeed be thought that envy is similarly opposed to pity, on the ground that envy is closely akin to indignation, or even the same thing."
"The motion ceases when the motive force produced in one member of the consecutive series is at each stage less, and it finally ceases when one member no longer causes the next member to be a mover but only causes it to be in motion."
"For the end is least obvious there where matter predominates most."
"If there is any way of acting or being acted upon proper to soul, soul will be capable of separate existence; if there is none, its separate existence is impossible."
"A like result may be gained by dividing the same offices, so as to have two classes of magistrates, one chosen by vote, the other by lot."
"For when the first genus has been taken, if you take one of the lower divisions not everything will fall into it eg not every animal is either whole winged or split winged, but every winged animal (for it is this of which it is a differentia)."
"The case in which if something holds it is necessary that this does, does not occur if one proposition is assumed, but only if at least two are; and this occurs when they have one middle term."
"(That the heart of bulls is of such a nature is shown by the fact that a bone is actually found in some of them, and bones seek the nature of sinew.)"
"Well, it is clear why belongs to D; for it does so because of."
"For if there were a superior fluteplayer who was far inferior in birth and beauty, although either of these may be a greater good than the art of flute playing and may excel flute playing in a greater ratio than he excels the others in his art, still he ought to have the best flutes given to him, unless the advantages of wealth and birth contribute to excellence in flute playing, which they do not."
"For we see that it increases in volume and strength in accordance with both changes of age and the varying condition of the body."
"The proof that wise men are good, since Pittacus is good, comes through the last figure."
"All these facts are in accordance with reason."
"This is a better definition that the other."
"And, speaking generally, towards those who are really fond of their friends and do not desert them in trouble; of all good men, we feel most friendly to those who show their goodness as friends."
"This, then, is one note of liberty which all democrats affirm to be the principle of their state."
"Some things, therefore, may happen both to be limited and to adjoin something else, while others may be limited, but not in relation to something else."
"Yet evidently, as we said, it needs the external goods as well; for it is impossible, or not easy, to do noble acts without the proper equipment."
"Names and verbs that are indefinite (and thereby opposite), such as 'not man' and 'not just', might be thought to be negations without a name and a verb."
"that which is a 'this' and separable and of this nature is the shape or form of each thing."
"For a long neck is weak, and it is on their superior strength that carnivorous birds depend for their subsistence."
"There is no such thing as motion over and above the things."
"whatever, and all the rest are admitted too."
"For one man is not more a man than another, as one pale thing is more pale than another and one beautiful thing more beautiful than another."
"Examples such as the following depend upon ambiguity: '"
"There are some who actually ascribe this heavenly sphere and all the worlds to spontaneity."
"For if the things which the law commands us to do are just, and the law ordains what is in accordance with all excellences, it follows that he who abides by legal justice will be completely good, so that the just man and justice are a kind of complete excellence."
"And if prudence is a property of knowledge of the noble, it will not be a property of knowledge of the base."
"Is it because, owing to the disturbance set up by the different water in those who frequently change their drinking water, the unconcocted state of the liquid causes a moist condition, especially in that part where the conditions are suitable?"
"Why have eunuchs sore and ulcerated legs?"
"he gets hold of him, he will do him no harm, not even with his claws, but after shaking him and giving Iliad."
", the place or the quality) is continuous?"
"Whether this is of one kind only, or of more than one, and if so, what they are, and how they are to be imparted, must hereafter be determined."
"I shall have an opportunity of considering at another time."
"For the people, having been instrumental in gaining the empire of the sea in the Persian War, began to get a notion of itself, and followed worthless demagogues, whom the better class opposed."
"It is evident also that wisdom and the art of politics cannot be the same; for if the state of mind concerned with a man's own interests is to be called wisdom, there will be many wisdoms; there will not be one concerned with the good of all animals (any more than there is one art of medicine for all existing things), but a different wisdom about the good of each species."
"It is clear too that every demonstration will proceed through three terms and no more, unless the same conclusion is established by different pairs of propositions; eg may be established through A and, and through and, or through A and, or A and and."
"All men have a claim in a certain sense, as I have already admitted, but not all have an absolute claim."
"And the same must surely happen to the healthy if the aforesaid change takes place."
"Fuhrmann obelizes this sentence."
"A man has, it is true, the capacity at once of sitting and of standing, because when he possesses the one he also possesses the other; but it does not follow that he can at the same time sit and stand, but at different times."
"Take the terms animal, substance, raven; animal, white raven."
"(For it makes no difference to say that it bends back through many terms or through few, or through few or two.)"
"The void, they argue, is not; but unless there is a void with a separate being of its own, what is cannot be moved nor again can it be many, since there is nothing to keep things apart."
"The underlying nature can be known by analogy."
"But is it luck or not by whi a man desires what and when he ought, though for human reasoning could not lead to this?"
"Or is it because the injustice is greater, since, in addition to the loss inflicted, he also violates his good faith, for the sake of which, if for no other reason, he ought to abstain from doing the wrong?"
"We ought therefore to ascertain, first of all, which is the most generally eligible life, and then whether the same life is or is not best for the state and for individuals."
"Yes, the temperate man is also self controlled."
"And if the number comes not from the many numbers themselves but from the units in them, eg in how is it with the units?"
"Hence they are not infinitely many either upwards or downwards; for one cannot define that of which infinitely many things are predicated."
"With contraries between which there is nothing intermediate it is necessary for one or the other of them always to belong to the things they naturally occur in or are predicated of."
"Or is it from the earth, as men say, that the cold begins and penetrates unnoticed?"
"That there is one heaven, then, only, and that it is ungenerated and eternal, and further that its movement is regular, has now been sufficiently explained."
"Yet, to repeat what we said before, if the medium for touch were a membrane separating us from the object without our observing its existence, we should be relatively to it in the same condition as we are now to air or water in which we are immersed; in their case we fancy we can touch objects, nothing coming in between us and them."
"But this is of course impossible; for it involves the consequence that one who is teaching is learning whereas teaching necessarily implies possessing knowledge, and learning not possessing it."
"As to the position of the earth, then, this is the view which some advance, and the views advanced concerning its rest or motion are similar."
"On this account too those that are accustomed to live on land, for example all the eels, move with fewer flexions in a fluid than on land, while the kind of mullet which has two fins, by its flexion in a fluid makes up the four points."
"So they are inquiring whether the principle or element is one or many."
"But when they are present in great excess, they are injurious and destructive."
"In the third figure all proofs are made through itself."
"Most scholars excise those sentences."
"All, on the other hand, who looked to the fact that what has soul in it knows or perceives what is, identify soul with the principle or principles of Nature, according as they admit several such principles or one only."
"But perhaps this is not the way in which we ought to seek for the best good."
"Now, if it has a centre and extremities, it has a limit though it is ungenerated; since if it be one and a body, as Melissus himself asserts, it has parts of its own as well, and these all alike."
"A plant which has thick bark expands owing to the pressure of moisture and the impelling force of heat; we see this in the pine and palm."
"Somewhat similar is that which happens in an echo, which is due to the refraction of the voice in a contrary direction."
"possess reason', (ii) 'pay heed to', 'obey', (iii) '"
"Wine, on the other hand, is very heating; so that it ought to have the opposite effect."
"There must be alteration then, in that there is this change from contrary to contrary."
"Now these, we say, must sometimes be advanced rather than the true solutions in contentious reasonings and in meeting ambiguity."
"Moreover, people sometimes give things the wrong way about, genus as differentia, and differentia as genus, calling (e.g.) astonishment an excess of wonderment and conviction strength of belief."
"So these would not be relatives."
"Then the whole must be the motion of for"
"This is the case with Mercury too; because it only rises a little above the horizon it often fails to be seen and consequently appears at great intervals of time."
"It is impossible, for instance, on a certain hypothesis that the triangle should have its angles equal to two right angles, and on another the diagonal is commensurable."
"Vapour is merely a form of moisture, but smoky exhalation is, as already remarked, composed of air and earth."
"So that it is the action in it,"
"Now if you proceed in this way you can know that nothing has been left out; but in any other way you will of necessity both leave something out and not know it."
"truly is assumed by demonstration per impossibile, and that not always universally but as far as is sufficient in so far as it bears on the genus (I say on the genus ie"
"The details however of the mutual relations of the different vessels must be looked for in the Dissections and the History of Animals."
"Now it is one thing to be absolutely false, and another thing to be absolutely impossible."
"For right in anything is, as we say, the region in which locomotion originates, and the rotation of the heaven originates in the region from which the stars rise."
"For constructive purposes, on the other hand, see whether he avoids introducing either the subject itself or any of its species; for then the property will in this respect have been correctly stated."
"These winds and Meses Omitting kai euros ho apelioten."
"For justice involves a number of individuals who are partners, and the friend is a partner either in family or in one's scheme of life."
"Nothing more need be said of these small suits, nor of the courts for homicide and for strangers: I would rather speak of political cases, which, when mism Excised by Dreizehnter."
"is done openly, before all men's eyes."
": of these latter some have articulate speech, while others are inarticulate; some are noisy, some are prone to silence; some are musical, and some unmusical; but all animals without exception exercise their power of singing or chattering chiefly in connexion with the intercourse of the sexes."
"Some animals are, at one and the same time, furnished with a mane and furnished also with a pair of horns bent in towards one another, as is the bison, which is found in Paeonia and Maedica."
"And, there being more than one kind of correctness, plainly excellence in deliberation is not any and every kind; for the incontinent man and the bad man will reach as a result of his calculation what he sets himself to do, so that he will have deliberated correctly, but he will have got for himself a great evil."
"If, then, understanding is as we posited, it is necessary for demonstrative understanding in particular to depend on things which are true and primitive and immediate and more familiar than and prior to and explanatory of the conclusion (for in this way the principles will also be appropriate to what is being proved)."
"Again, all these animals are unprovided with ears, but possess only the passage for hearing"
"that to which is committed the execution of punishments, or the exaction of fines from those who are posted up according to the registers; and also the custody of prisoners."
"for that is just what is meant by 'black'"
"This is not due to the turning of the moon, but it grows warmer as the light increases and colder as it wanes."
"And similarly if one is not universal."
"But if what came away was not a body but a separable form or affection, and if the magnitude is points or contacts thus qualified, it is absurd that a magnitude should consist of things which are not magnitudes."
"Therefore not only can a thing come to be, incidentally, out of that which is not, but also all things come to be out of that"
"For he who does not know whether it belongs to the object, will not know either whether it belongs to it alone."
"The arguments are particularly appropriate in cases where the process of putting the parts together is obvious, as in a house and other things of that sort; for there, clearly, you may have the parts and yet not have the whole, so that parts and whole cannot be the same."
"These are the five causes of plants."
"It is clear then that it is the work of one science also to study all things that are, qua being."
"Clearly counsel can only be given on matters about which people can deliberate; matters, namely, that ultimately depend on ourselves, and which we have it in our power to set going."
"For there are some who get up while sleeping and walk about seeing just like those who are awake; these have perception of what is happening, and though they are not awake, yet this perception is not like a dream."
"But both sexes of the horse cross with both sexes of the ass, and the offspring of both crosses are sterile, according to Empedocles, because from both is produced something dense, the seeds being soft."
"Again, he deprives the guardians even of happiness, and says that the legislator ought to make the whole state happy."
"Now what is intelligible and primary for particular sets of people is often intelligible to a very small extent, and has little or nothing of reality."
"For females are weaker and colder in nature, and we must look upon the female character as being a sort of natural deficiency."
"In the crayfish and in the crabs the right claw is invariably the larger and the stronger."
"For they are tamed down in their behaviour towards each other by extremity of thirst."
"Next, look from the point of view of the opposites, and first from that of the contraries, and see, for destructive purposes, if the contrary of the term rendered fails to be a property of the contrary subject."
"For the food on which the creature lives lies down below; consequently the mouth is near the food, and the excretion is above, near to the back of the shell."
"For thinking and imagination, as we said above, produce that which brings about the affections, since they produce the forms which bring them about."
"the standard being as above said as reason directs; this corresponds to saying in regard to diet that the standard should be as medical science and its reason direct."
"Secondly, you must say that they often make confessions to their torturers which are not the truth, in order to end their torments as quickly as possible."
"There is surely a great confusion in all this."
"I almond trees, for example, and pear trees and holm oaks."
"For the same reason, their guards are such as a king and not such as a tyrant would employ, that is to say, they are composed of citizens, whereas the guards of tyrants are mercenaries."
"Now since it is impossible that contradictories should be at the same time true of the same thing, obviously contraries also cannot belong at the same time to the same thing."
"Among the Iberians, a warlike nation, the number of enemies whom a man has slain is indicated by the number of obelisks which are fixed in the earth round his tomb; and there are numerous practices among other nations of a like kind, some of them established by law and others by custom."
"Why, then, should we assert this of this part any more than of the others?"
"Dark eyes are less moved because of the quantity of liquid in them."
"For a man inhales and exhales by this organ, and sneezing is effected by its means"
"Of the ways in which a questioner may postulate the point at issue and postulate contraries the true account has been given in the Analyti but an account on the level of opinion must be given now."
"In the genus that combines all viviparous quadrupeds are many species, but under no common appellation."
"For the aforesaid term is not the genus of divisible lines, and these do not differ as regards their species for straight lines are never different from each other as regards their species."
"A sign which sometimes precedes earthquakes can be explained in the same way."
"Is it because the doing of anything with a number of other people compressing, for instance, or pushing something does not produce an effect in simple proportion to the number of persons; but, just as a line two feet long describes a circle which is not double but"
"For all these birds feed on substances easy of reduction, and because of this, their food being moist and not requiring much concoction their stomachs are moist."
"Motions that are not the same either specifically or generically may, it is true, be consecutive (e.g. a man may run and then at once fall ill of a fever), and again, in the torch race we have consecutive but not continuous locomotion; for according to our definition there can a be continuity only when the ends of the two things are one."
"and actors; and besides, the getting up of the spectacle is more a matter for the designer than the poet."
"Of the position of the earth and of the manner of its rest or movement, our discussion may here end."
"It is the source of movement, it is the end, it is the essence of the whole living body."
"The reasons why the primary body is eternal and not subject to increase or diminution, but unaging and unalterable and unmodified, will be clear from what has been said to any one who believes in our assumptions."
"But difference is not the same as otherness."
"If then the terms are related universally a deduction will be possible, whenever the middle belongs to all of one subject and to none of another (it does not matter which has the negative relation), but in no other way."
"If then it is both by nature and for an end that the swallow makes its nest and the spider its web, and plants grow leaves for the sake of the fruit and send their roots down (not up) for the sake of nourishment, it is plain that this kind of cause is operative in things which come to be and are by nature."
"Now the activities of thought differ from those of the senses, and among themselves, in kind; so, therefore, do the pleasures that complete them."
"Likewise also in the case of other things, both those which are and those which are held to be like."
"Since they have neither feathers nor scales such as either reptiles or other fishes have, all which are signs rather of a dry and earthy nature, the egg they produce is soft; for the earthy matter does not come to the surface in their eggs any more than in themselves."
"Animals have parts of a similar kind, their organs, the sinewy tendons to wit and the bones; the bones are like the pegs and the iron; the tendons are like the strings; for when these are slackened or released movement begins."
"Hence the practice of laying beneath the roots stones of certain species or water in pots, for the purpose of cooling the roots of the plants."
"From each of the two great blood vessels there extend branches to each of the two flanks, and both branches fasten on to the bone."
"This, then, is the way in which the characteristics of the bodily organs of sense must be determined."
"For they think that pleasure is a becoming because it ensues on the application of the remedy; but it is not."
"if man is an animal, what is not an animal is not a man; and likewise also in other instances of contradictories."
"Oligarchy or democracy, although a departure from the most perfect form, may yet be a good enough government, but if any one attempts to push the principles of either to an extreme, he will begin by spoiling the government and end by having none at all."
"they are equal but not similar, and their position is not fixed."
"This is also the reason why flowers when rubbed smell less sweet; for the rubbing imparts motion to the earthy element and the slow heat does not destroy it."
"For by their special character they are suited to serve in the excretion of the fluid which collects in the bladder."
"Nor can infinite be acted upon in any way by infinite."
"Again, the Lacedaemonian, when he was being examined on his conduct as ephor, was asked whether he thought that the other ephors had been Plato, Apology."
"what tales or stories the children hear, for all such things are designed to prepare the way for the business of later life, and should be for the most part imitations of the occupations which they will hereafter pursue in earnest."
"This argument is, however, fallacious, for it often becomes clear after the event how the action could have been done better, though before the event this was far from clear."
"The truth is that what desires the form is matter, as the female desires the male and the ugly the beautiful only the ugly or the female not in itself but accidentally."
"Clearly there is a considerable difference made in the character by the actual practice of the art."
"just acts are pleasant to the lover of justice and in general excellent acts to the lover of excellence."
"If again it is necessary to conclude that A belongs to no"
"black eyed because they have some particular part of a particular nature, so are some lucky and others unlucky?"
"But there must be such one, inasmuch as the general faculty of sense perception is one."
"Why is it that no one can tickle himself?"
"Since, then, it is divisible, it must be a period of time, and the thing must be at rest in every one of its parts, as may be shown by the same method as that used above."
"You can also point out that no law forbids the conferring of a public benefit and that it is a benefaction to the state to annul bad laws."
"A 'capacity' in geometry is so called by extension of meaning."
"But when it is divided up into small portions, it is pressed out of the skin together with the air already there, so that the space occupied by the air becomes empty; and so the jar can hold the skins and additional liquid as well."
"For the man who is deceived in his reason is neither continent nor incontinent, but only he who possesses right reason and thereby judges of right and wrong, and it is the man who disobeys this kind of reason who is incontinent, while he who obeys it and is not led by his appetites is self controlled."
"eg if a man learns, it follows that he was ignorant before and knows afterwards."
"With regard to the crustaceans, one species is that of the crayfish, and"
"To the yard arm'; and 'Which cow will calve before?' '"
"It may, however, be asked, of what mode of necessity are we speaking when we say this."
"The Pythagoreans, too, held that void exists and that it enters the world from the infinite air, the world inhaling also the void which distinguishes the natures of things, as if it were what separates and distinguishes the terms of a series."
"During the sloughing the skin turns inside out; for the creature emerges just as the embryo from its afterbirth."
"For when such drugs enter the stomach and become dissolved, they are carried into the vein by the ducts through which the food passes, and, not being concocted but themselves prevailing, they make their way out, carrying with them anything which gets in their way; and this is called purging."
"For the servant is a part of his master."
"For this reason too those who sleep much have a less healthy colour than those who sleep a moderate amount; for a man who is asleep is in a stifled condition."
"And it is then especially that women conceive without realising it"
"They are not quite identical nor yet entirely unconnected with Natural Problems."
"In our original discussion about governments we divided them into three true forms: kingly rule, aristocracy, and constitutional government, and three corresponding perversions tyranny, oligarchy, and democracy."
"Reasonings of the former kind will necessarily be hard to follow owing to their length, for we assume an audience of untrained thinkers; those of the latter kind will fail to be persuasive, because they are based on premisses that are not generally admitted or reputable."
"Those who suppose the Ideas to exist and to be numbers, take each to be one thing by setting each out apart from the many so that they try at least to explain somehow why numbers exist."
"Certain of the dog fishes, for example the spotted dog, seem to breed twice a month, and this results from the circumstance that the eggs do not all reach maturity at the same time."
"If you wish to speak at moderate length, you must pick out the most important divisions of your speech and make them your subject."
"The older horses, whether of the male or female, are the more generatively productive."
"Still more does this apply to the fissipeds, for such animals produce many young and imperfect, as the dog, the young of these creatures being generally blind."
"For if you ascribe this same property to one thing and deny it of another, only two problems arise, as in the case of a statement that it is a property of a man, in relation to a horse, to be a biped."
"Specimens, however, of the fishing frog are rare from the facility with which the young are destroyed, as the female lays her spawn all in a lump close in to shore."
"For the greater quantity, finding a lesser in front of it, must necessarily drive it on, both having an impulse whose goal is the centre, and the greater weight driving the lesser forward till this goal is reached."
"For when we seek whether it is this or this, putting it into a number (e.g. whether the sun is eclipsed or not), we seek the fact."
"Now the now that is the extremity of both times must be one and the same; for if each extremity were different, the one could not be in succession to the other, because nothing continuous can be composed of things having no parts; and if the one is apart from the other, there will be time between them, because everything continuous is such that there is something between its limits described by the same name as itself."
"For it seems impossible that any universal term should be the name of a substance."
"In the extreme north, beyond furthest Scythia, are the mountains called Rhipae."
"So the compulsory act seems always painful, and no one acts from force and yet with pleasure."
"And this sort of error is much the same as that through the appropriate middle."
"Let us now proceed to say what it is to be together and apart, in contact, between, in succession, contiguous, and continuous, and to show in what circumstances each of these terms is naturally applicable."
"Nor in reference to contradictory change shall we find anything impossible eg if it is argued that if a thing is changing from not white to white, and is in neither condition, then it will be neither white nor not white; for the fact that it is not wholly in either condition will not preclude us from calling it white or notwhite."
"The brains of animals supplied with fat are oily, as in the pig; of animals supplied with suet, dry."
"But the man that is good absolutely, seeks to be a friend to himself, as has been said, since he has within him two parts which by nature desire to be friends and which it is impossible to tear apart."
"Further, if a given movement is due to constraint, its contrary is natural."
"Is it because the notes were originally seven in number, and then Terpander took away trite and added nete, and in his time it was called diapason and not octave, since there were seven?"
"The air, on the other hand, is not obstructed, because it does not travel in a straight line through anything through which it passes."
"Now that this way will not be a demonstration was said earlier (but it is a general deduction of what the thing is)."
"There cannot, then, be a definition of anything; or rather in a sense there can be, and in a sense there cannot."
"No, white comes from not white and not from any not white, but from black or some intermediate."
"But in some there is so much moisture that they cannot draw up the man's emission in a pure form, because it is mixed with the moisture from the woman."
"If, however, the ambiguity escapes one, one should correct it at the end by making an addition to the question: 'Is speaking of the silent possible'? '"
"Why is it that when liquid which fills a jar is poured into skins the jar not only holds the liquid and the skins as well but also has room for more liquid?"
"Nor, again, can counsel be given about the whole class of things which may or may not take place; for this class includes some good things that occur naturally, and"
"Now in fire we observe a destruction of two kinds: it is destroyed by its contrary when it is quenched, and by itself when it dies out."
"When mentioning anything ugly or unseemly, use its name if it is the description that is ugly, and describe it if it is the name that is ugly."
"In general, when a number of similar and undifferentiated bodies are moved with the same motion this result is necessarily produced, viz."
"; they were the first to advance this study, and having been brought up in it they thought its principles were the principles of all things."
"This cannot take place in the case of hail, since frozen bodies cannot coalesce like liquid ones."
", for Ross's kath holou trigonou."
"But yet it is not only a reasoned state; this is shown by the fact that a state of that sort may be forgotten but practical wisdom cannot."
"The question may be raised whether the epic or the tragic is the higher form of imitation."
"In a sense, therefore, all things that are called prior and posterior are so called according to this fourth sense; for some things can exist without others in respect of generation, eg the whole without the parts, and others in respect of dissolution,"
"The reason is that assigned before, that the skins of the varicoloured are vari coloured, and the skins of the white haired and dark haired are white and dark in each case."
"; which will account for the fact that there are found in Phrygia and elsewhere cattle that can move their horns as freely as their ears."
"This is exactly what we find, for the wind eggs become fertile if the male tread the female in a certain space of time."
"Again, rotatory motion is also the only motion that admits of being regular."
"and so is homonymous or synonymous, as the case may be; for people are more ready to agree when they do not foresee what the consequence will be."
"; a prosperous hive will yield twelve or fifteen pints, exceptionally good hives eighteen."
"They stretch the rope on the method already mentioned from A to, then to, and, and so on until they turn back and reach another angle; for the two ends of the rope come at two different angles."
"Those who say that the victim on the rack or the man who falls into great misfortunes is happy if he is good, are, whether they mean to or not, talking nonsense."
"Clearly, then, it is not necessary that of every affirmation and opposite negation"
"Now it is easier to create and set in motion one thing than several things."
"Youth is the period of the growth of the primary organ of refrigeration, old age of its decay, while the intervening time is the prime of life."
"The same thing happens in the process of dyeing with purple; when, after breaking up the shell and washing all the moisture from it, they pour it into earthenware vessels and boil it, at first no definite colour is noticeable in the dye, because, as the liquid boils more and more and the colours still remaining in the vessels mix together, each of the hues gradually undergoes a great variety of alterations; for black and white and brown and hazy shades appear, and finally the dye all turns purple, when the colours are sufficiently boiled up together; so as a result of the blending no other colour is separately noticeable."
"Rather it happens that at one time the trunk and the branches alone die and new ones grow up beside them, and it is only when this has taken place that the fresh roots spring from the surviving part."
"If, then, A and being thus related, is (T) not possible on this condition, A and will not be related as was supposed."
"But not even movement in respect of place involves a void; for bodies may simultaneously make room for one another, though there is no interval separate and apart from the bodies that are in movement."
"The reason is that in some cases the matter which determines the production in the making and producing of any work of art, and in which a part of the product is present, is such as to be set in motion by itself and in some cases is not of this nature, and of the former kind some can move itself in the particular way required, while other matter is incapable of this; for many things can be set in motion by themselves but not in some particular way, eg that of dancing."
"For if someone knows of a certain 'this' that it is a relative, and being for relatives is the same as being somehow related to something, he knows that also to which this is somehow related."
"But if there is something which is capable of moving things or acting on them, but is not actually doing so, there will not be movement; for that which has a capacity need not exercise it."
"The former is relative to something and is the touching of something (for everything that touches touches something), and further is an attribute of some one of the things which are limited."
"The language they all use is similar; like, they say, is known by like; as the soul knows everything, they construct it out of all the principles."
"Reflective thought presents a different problem."
"Now water makes men pale when it putrefies, a process which is due to the absence of movement; that is why those who live in marshy regions are rather pale."
"Next, for destructive purposes, see if the account fails to apply to that to which the name applies, and if the name fails to apply to that to which the account applies; for then what is stated to be a property will not be a property."
"If it be drawn off during these days it has no consistency; but it attains consistency"
"About the things, then, which are essences and exist in actuality, it is not possible to be in error, but only to think them or not to think them."
"Natural science is in the same position as mathematics; for natural science studies the attributes and the principles of the things that are, qua moving and not qua being, whereas the primary science, we have said, deals with these only in so far as the underlying subjects are existent, and not in virtue of any other character."
"For Alcmaeon declares that men perish because they cannot link together the beginning to the end a clever saying, if one supposes that he uses it metaphorically and the literal meaning is not insisted upon."
"Some species of Testacea are absolutely motionless, and others not quite but nearly so."
"We must, however, not only describe it as a state, but also say what sort of state it is."
"This is indicated by the presence of hair and feathers."
"For nature passes from lifeless objects to animals in such unbroken sequence, interposing between them beings which live and yet are not animals, that scarcely any difference seems to exist between two neighbouring groups owing to their close proximity."
"The effect in both cases is the same and the cause is the same, but the manner of its operation is different."
"Evidently, then, 'other' and 'unlike' also have several meanings."
"so, while the nose sneezes when that region becomes hot, the lower region, where hiccuping takes place, also sneezes in sympathy."
"For this kind occurs even in the good, in those who are of warm temperament and of a rich natural endowment; but the other in the cold and atrabilious, and such are blameworthy."
"Furthermore, it would appear that not only do men dream, but horses also, and doges, and oxen, and sheep, and goats, and all viviparous quadrupeds; and dogs show their dreaming by barking in their sleep."
"Again, if there is to be change of change and becoming of becoming, we shall have an infinite regress."
"These, then, are the reasons of these contrarieties, that neither are all young animals"
"To generalize, teaching is not the same as learning, or agency as patiency, in the full sense, though they belong to the same subject, the motion; for the actualization of this in that and the actualization of that through the action of this differ in definition."
"One might rank in the same class even those who are compelled by their rulers; but they are inferior, inasmuch as they act not from shame but from fear, and to avoid not what is disgraceful but what is painful; for their masters compel them, as Hector does:"
"Generally, if it is necessary to distinguish as the sophists do, he is related to himself as Coriscus to good Coriscus."
"Man is begotten by man and by the sun as well."
"For in giving the supreme power to the law courts, which are elected by lot, he is thought to have destroyed the non democratic element."
"Why is it that light cannot penetrate through dense objects, whereas sound can do so, although light is rarer and trave farther and quicker than sound?"
"Here, again, rightness does not consist either in rapidity or in conciseness, but in the happy mean; that is, in saying just so much as will make the facts plain, or will lead the hearer to believe that the thing has happened, or that the man has caused injury or wrong to some one, or that the facts are really as important as you wish them to be thought: or the opposite facts to establish the opposite arguments."
"For example, the individual man belongs in a species, man, and animal is a genus of the species; so these both man and animal are called secondary substances."
"It is as absurd as to say that the art of carpentry could embody itself in flutes; each art must use its tools, each soul its body."
"Now mind and reason and knowledge seem to be a thing utterly foreign to it."
"The actual speech in a public harangue creates a prejudice when it is too lengthy or old fashioned, or lacks credibility."
"And this conclusion will grow clearer in the light of the following considerations."
"If, then, anyone whatever of these is agreed to, the others must of necessity be agreed to as well."
"There are some people who pluck their hairs and nibble them."
"But, when the air around is cold and contracts and solidifies the body, retardation of the breathing results."
"The croaking that goes on in the water is the call Omitting Dittmeyer's apoda."
"The demonstration is the same as before; for the particular affirmative also is convertible."
"To punctuate Heracleitus is no easy task, because we often cannot tell whether a particular word belongs to what precedes or what follows it."
"For it is not because they themselves receive anything that statements and beliefs are said to be able to receive contraries, but because of what has happened to something else."
"The above is a fairly complete account of the circumstances under which men do wrong to others, of the sort of wrongs they do, of the sort of persons to whom they do them, and of their reasons for doing them."
"Still, so much, at any rate, is clear: the things which are such as to impart motion in one sense will touch the things which are such as to be moved by them, but in another sense they will not."
"At the same time it is manifest from this that pleasures differ in kind."
"Earth is not so affected at all, because a common surface is not possible to it."
"What is frozen gives off no evaporation, nor does that which contains no dryness at all: it is only where something dry contains moisture that it gives off evaporation under the influence of heat."
"Suppose, once more, that we add wealth to the few and poverty to the many, and name the governments accordingly an oligarchy is said to be that in which the few and the wealthy, and a democracy that in which the many and the poor are the rulers there will still be a difficulty."
"The reason is that wood has its moisture all together"
"Hence again they branch off into four veins, of which one bends back and descends through the neck and the shoulder, and meets the previous branching off of the vein at the bend of the arm, while the rest of it terminates at the hand and fingers."
"The terms 'generated' and 'destructible' follow one another; this is obvious from our former remarks, since between what always is and what always is not there is an intermediate which neither follows, and that intermediate is the generated and destructible."
"A probability differs from an example in this, that the hearers have themselves some notion of the probability, while examples. ."
"Similar accounts of other stars are given by the Egyptians and Babylonians, whose observations have been kept for very many years past, and from whom much of our evidence about particular stars is derived."
"For in the course of a continuous motion the traveller has traversed an infinite number of units in an accidental sense but not in an unqualified sense; for though it is an accidental characteristic of the distance to be an infinite number of half distances, it is different in essence and being."
"As to the vulgarizing effect which music is supposed to exercise, this is a question which we shall have no difficulty in determining when we have considered to what extent freemen who are being trained to political excellence should pursue the art, what melodies and what rhythms they should be allowed to use, and what instruments should be employed in teaching them to play; for even the instrument makes a difference."
"Where this is impossible, we shall collect together all the arguments by which we can create in our hearers a feeling of envy against our opponents; for envy is very near to hatred."
"But the reason that they are bandy is that all of them or most of them live in holes; for creatures living so cannot possibly be high above the ground."
"If rarity and density do not exist, they say, neither can things contract and be compressed."
"You should take, therefore, whichever of the consequences suits your purpose."
"If, then, a single proposition is one which claims a single thing of a single thing, a proposition, without qualification, will be the putting of a question of that kind."
"should be coming to be"
"the more transparent the body, the more so."
"Often, too, a strong current from without becomes caught in the hollows of the earth, and, being cut off, it shakes the earth violently, seeking an exit, and sets up the condition which we commonly call an earthquake."
"So since belonging to ever higher terms comes to a stop, not belonging will come to a stop too."
"Here again it is not hard to point out the available grounds for magnifying its value, if it happens to tell in our favour, and arguing that it is the only form of evidence that is truthful; or, on the other hand, for refuting it if it tells against us and for our opponent, when we may say what is true of torture of every kind alike, that people under its compulsion lie just as often, sometimes persistently refusing to tell the truth, sometimes recklessly making a false charge in order to be let off sooner."
"If they had always been equalized, they would not have been unequal before; for there is nothing before that which is always."
"And it might seem that proportion alternates for things as numbers and as lines and as solids and as times as once it used to be proved separately, though it is possible for it to be proved of all cases by a single demonstration."
"Is it because the water prevents liquefaction, while perspiration is formed when matter which is not properly attached to the fle is expelled by heat?"
"On such questions our views have been expressed before; but let us return to enumerate the difficulties that might be raised on these same points; for perhaps we may get some help towards our later difficulties."
"and then inquire what it follows and"
"Since this is proved it is evident that if a false and not impossible assumption is made, the consequence of the assumption will also be false and not impossible: eg if A is false, but not impossible, and if follows from, also will be false but not impossible."
"For no one puts up with the smaller share in all things; therefore to the man who loses in wealth they assign honour and to the man who is willing to be paid, wealth, since the proportion to merit equalizes the parties and preserves the friendship, as we have said."
"Then if A belongs not to every, but to every, will belong not to every."
"For most listeners conclude from the contraries which occur in connexion with a speech or action that there is nothing sound in what is being said or done."
"therefore the excellence of all the citizens cannot possibly be the same, any more than the excellence of the leader of a chorus is the same as that of the performer who stands by his side."
"Prantl, Teubner, Leipzig, Omitting me."
"; neither have they breasts, nor a copulatory organ, nor visible external testicles, but internal ones only; neither are they hair coated, but are in all cases covered with horny tessellations."
"Clearly of colours; and the 'one' would have been a particular 'one', eg white."
"(for it subtends the greater angle of the triangle."
"For the heat, accumulating in great quantity, quickly uses up its nutriment and consumes it all before more is sent up by exhalation."
"From what has been said, then, it is evident that that which primarily imparts motion is unmoved; for, whether that which is in motion but moved by something leads straight to the first unmoved, or whether it leads to what is in motion but moves itself and stops its own motion, on both suppositions we have the result that in all cases of things being in motion that which primarily imparts motion"
"One evidently means a measure."
"Every sentence is significant (not as a tool but, as we said, by convention), but not every sentence is a statement making sentence, but only those in which there is truth or falsity."
"And it is about this time of life that in men the beard makes its appearance."
"Proof is possible also without reduction, if one of the Ss be taken to which does not belong."
"We may illustrate what we are saying by our conception of the gods; for in the poets Zeus does not himself sing or play on the lyre."
"Since, as we said, to know what something is and to know the explanation of Reading ti estin;. ."
"Is it because one contrary immediately succeeding another contrary always sets up a violent change?"
"But in so far as it is potentially flesh only, it nourishes; for it is thus that nutrition and growth differ by their definition."
"From this it is clear that there is in nature some bodily substance other than the formations we know, prior to them all and more divine than they."
"If he makes the halves actual, he will get not a continuous but an intermittent motion."
"To say that the flesh is nourished from vein and air duct, on the ground that blood comes from any point where you prick it, is false in the case of the other animals, eg birds, snakes, and fishes, and oviparous creatures in general."
"If then demonstration is of necessary truths and definition involves knowledge, and if, just as knowledge cannot be sometimes knowledge and sometimes ignorance, but the state which varies thus is opinion, so too demonstration and definition cannot vary thus, but it is opinion that deals with that which can be otherwise than as (Z)"
"In the same way in the case of goods, one can speculate about the rest without the Ideal Good."
"If, then, you are overthrowing a view, follow the rule as given; if establishing one, then suppose that what has been named as genus is admitted to belong to the species, only it is disputed whether it belongs as genus"
"Fire, then, as moving upward, will be void, earth, as moving downward, plenum; and in air, it will be said, fire preponderates, in water, earth."
"A useful corrective to the evil of which I am speaking would be the law of the Aphytaeans, who, although they are numerous, and do not possess much land, are all of them farmers."
"I use the terms 'to be possible' and 'the possible' of that which is not necessary but, being assumed, results in nothing impossible."
"Why do objects appear double to those whose eyes are distorted?"
"The difficulty arising from these facts is rather this, how there are actually many substances and not one."
"As was to be anticipated, therefore, it is among plants that tastes occur in richest variety."
"Hence a point will not be the smallest of the constituents in a line."
"Next, it is possible to hunt for understanding of what a thing is through this figure alone."
"If a man has defined an object as this together with that, the first thing to be said is that this together with that is the same as these things, or as what is made from these things."
"Persuasion is achieved by the speaker's personal character when the speech is so spoken as to make us think him credible."
"Nor is he liberal who gives with pain; for he would prefer the wealth to the noble act, and this is not characteristic of a liberal man."
"For it is this that some assert to be one, others more than one, and that some assert to be limited in number, others unlimited."
"Moreover the legislator has not let those who make mistakes go free, but has made them liable to punishment, in order to prevent them from making mistakes again."
"But, being a man, one will also need external prosperity; for our nature is not self sufficient for the purpose of contemplation, but our body also must be healthy and must have food and other attention."
"These flavours must in every case be due to the fire that is present or produced in them; for if you expose earth to different degrees of heat it assumes various kinds and shades of flavour."
"Or is it because it dries up the moisture?"
"Praise is appropriate to excellence; for as a result of excellence men tend to do noble deeds"
"For how is the manner of their coming to be to be conceived by those who maintain a theory like that of Empedocles?"
"In the second figure it is not possible to prove an affirmative proposition in this way, but a negative may be proved."
"There is nothing to prevent grubs, honey, and drones being all found in one and the same comb."
"Privation, therefore, is a contradiction or incapacity which is determinate or taken along with the receptive material."
"Cranes also fight so desperately among themselves as to be caught when fighting, for they will not leave off; the crane too lays two eggs."
"For in such the viscera are more sanguineous, and of greater bulk in proportion to the body, it being in the earliest stage of formation that the nature of the material and its abundance are most conspicuous."
"This is why it is thought to be friendship."
"And in the same way the geometer does not consider the attributes which attach thus to figures, nor whether a triangle is different from a triangle whose angles are equal to two right angles."
"In animals therefore where this fluid is very abundantly formed, their presence enables the bladder to perform better its proper office."
"But these twig like formations are naturally connected with the tunic, for just as the shell is with the body of the snail"
"It discharges the solid residuum sparingly, about every other day or at irregular intervals, and the substance of it is hard and dry like the excrement of dog."
"But good fortune would seem to consist to a greater extent and more properly in the obtaining of good."
"On even ground, therefore, the raising and planting of the foot is a slight but frequent movement, while the opposite occurs on uneven ground."
"What matters, however, is the circumstances under which the privileges are enjoyed."
"Pericles bade his countrymen remove Aegina, 'that eyesore of the Peiraeus'."
"Whether our argument is made in a political gathering or in one of any other sort, we must know some, if not all, of the facts about the subject on which we are to speak and argue."
"Again suppose it has been proved in the middle figure that A belongs to every."
"The milk, then, of non ambidentals coagulates, and that is why cheese is made of the milk of such animals underdomestication; but the milk of ambidentals does not coagulate, nor their fat either, and the milk is thin and sweet."
"Below this comes air."
"But there are some who fail to abide by their resolutions, not as a result of incontinence, eg Neoptolemus in Sophocles' Philoctetes; yet it was for the sake of pleasure that he did not stand fast but a noble pleasure; for telling the truth was noble to him, but he had been persuaded by Odysseus to tell the lie."
"The grub when it is small lies slantwise in the comb, but by and by rises up straight by an effort of its own and takes food, and holds on so tightly to the honeycomb as actually to be squeezed against it."
"And this is the same thing as to direct the argument against the word."
"Though it is evident that many reservoirs of this kind do exist in many parts of the earth, yet it is unreasonable for any one to refuse to admit that air becomes water in the earth for the same reason as it does above it."
"To understand this we must grasp the different methods of generation in plants; some of these are produced from seed, some from slips, planted out, some by budding off alongside, as the class of onions."
"We cannot call good fortune by a proper name of its own, but we often say that it is a cause, though cause is not a suitable name for it."
"But he has given, not what he had not got, but in a manner in which he had not got it, viz."
"The easiest thing of all to establish is an accidental predicate; for in other cases one has to prove not only that the predicate belongs, but also that it belongs in such and such a way; whereas in the case of the accident it is enough to prove merely that it belongs."
"The workers do not live over into a second year, but all die when winter comes on; and this can be proved, for at the commencement of winter the workers become drowsy, and about the time of the winter solstice they are never seen at all."
"The general element of moisture, covering the earth's surface and allowing the so called inhabited countries to show through where the earth projects, may be said to come immediately after the aerial element."
"Inasmuch as 'same' and 'different' are used in several ways, it is a job to render to a sophistical questioner a property that belongs to one thing and"
"In this it resembles all other arts."
"Thus it is that foals are scarcely, if at all, below horses in height; and that while still young they can touch their heads with the hind legs, though this is no longer possible when they are older."
"For many such persons have bodily afflictions as the result of this kind of temperament, while some of them obviously possess a natural inclination to affections of this kind; in a word, they all, as has been said, are naturally atrabilious."
"Such is the good man, the man whose friendship is based on excellence, for the wicked man is not one but many, in the same day other than himself and fickle."
"For a finite number of causes would produce a kind of order, since absence of order is not proved by diversity of direction in motions:"
"For if its ischium extended but a short way from the fundament, and then immediately came the leg, as is the case in man and in quadrupeds, the bird would be unable to stand up at all."
"For the power of perception is never found apart from the power of self nutrition, while in plants the latter is found isolated from the former."
"Therefore being concocted in the development of the chick"
"the source of our difficulty lies: when we have made this clear, then obviously our business Reading dia."
"is not what is coming to be"
"Further, even among animals some produce many young from a single coition (and something like this is universal among plants, for it is plain that they bear all the fruit of a whole season from a single movement)."
"Yet the form cannot desire itself, for it is not defective; nor can the contrary desire it, for contraries are mutually destructive."
"Is it because each form of excretion has a region in which it is naturally secreted and, when an effort is made,"
"Excellence then also is a thing that is honourable, at least when some one has become a good man in consequence of it; for already such a one has come into the form of excellence."
"A thing of this sort is not composite, so as to be when it is compounded, and not to be if it is separated, like the white wood or the incommensurability of the diagonal; nor will truth and falsity be still present in the same way as in the previous cases."
"This may be seen in the case of eunuchs, who, though mutilated in one part alone, depart so much from their original appearance and approximate closely to the female form."
"But since every natural body has its proper movement, and movements are either simple or mixed, mixed in mixed bodies and simple in simple, there must obviously be simple bodies; for there are simple movements."
"For in the one case she has not the nutriment or material from which the foetus can be framed by the power coming from the male and inherent in the semen, and in the other it is washed away with the discharge because of its abundance."
"it is by far than the honeycomb dripping with sweetness, And spreads through the hearts of men."
"I need a covering, a a coat is a covering: I need a coat."
"that A belongs to some necessarily; for falls under, and A was assumed to belong necessarily to every."
"Having determined these principles let us explain the cause of the appearance in the sky of burning flames and of shooting stars, and of 'torches', and 'goats', as some people call them."
"For if of everything either the affirmation or the negation holds good, then if it is proved that the negation does not hold, the affirmation must be true."
"Therefore the incontinent perform their bad acts with their own wish."
"Thus generals of armies attack monarchs; as, for example, Cyrus attacked Astyages, despising the effeminacy of his life, and believing that his power was worn out."
"Hence every formula is false when applied to something other than that of which it is true, eg"
"Some are good in the breeding time, as the saperdis, and some bad, as the sheat fish."
"It is the longer lived animals that take a long time to bear their young."
"Ay, kin can even be jealous of their kin."
"Consequently vomiting, by dislodging the excretion which is the cause of fatigue, naturally makes us less fatigued; for it leaves the body in the state in which it was when the exertion began."
"Since all the attempts to account for the saltness of the sea seem unsuccessful let us explain it by the help of the principle we have used already."
"And when they owed pay to their soldiers to the amount of twenty talents and could not provide it, they paid the generals four talents a year as interest."
"But in feeding they expel the water in order to prevent its being swallowed simultaneously with the food."
"Some of them bring forth in the springtime."
"As regards the shape of the womb, the reader is referred to the Anatomies."
"for he who shows that he loves seems to want to be loved, not to love."
"Besides these three there is a fourth office of receivers of taxes, who have under their charge the revenue which is distributed among the various departments; these are called Receivers or Treasurers."
"In this way your speech will be of a sufficient length."
"For that which is intermediate between the two is in a sense both extremity and centre."
"To prove that A does not belong to every, we must suppose that it belongs to every B; for if A belongs to every, and to every, then belongs to every B; so that if this is impossible, the supposition is false."
"Children, just as they have no control over other parts, so have no control, at first, over the tongue; but it is so far imperfect, and only detaches itself by degrees, so"
"I have been walking just now)."
"(Plato of course, if we may digress, ought to tell us why the form and the numbers are not in place, if 'what participates' is place whether what participates is the Great and the Small or the matter, as he has written in the Timaeus.)"
": the rays of Prantl proposes moving this paragraph to follow."
"Change is especially found in those animals of which by nature the individual is whole coloured but the kind many coloured."
"Again, since the food in the upper stomach, having just been swallowed, must of necessity be quite fresh, while that which has reached the lower stomach must have had its juices exhausted and resemble dung, it follows of necessity that there must also be some intermediate part, in which the change may be effected, and where the food will be neither perfectly fresh nor yet dung."
"In a word, there will seem to be consistency with the charge in the case of persons who cause an opinion to be formed about them which corresponds with their character."
"No fish has a neck, or any limb or testicles at all, within or without, or breasts."
"We have also cleared up the problems concerning all other matters that belong to the same inquiry into arguments."
"Hence it is so with time."
"When the terms are arranged in this way no deduction is possible."
"another potential something (for one who possesses knowledge of a science but is not actually exercising it knows the science potentially in a sense, though not in the same sense as before he learnt it)."
"So that this part in no way co operates towards happiness."
"Look and see, also, if there is any other genus of the given species which neither embraces the given genus nor falls under it, eg suppose any one were to lay down that knowledge"
"are large instead of numerous, what nature has taken away in number being added in size."
"But it is not; to lie with one's neighbour's wife, to wound another, to deliver a bribe, is easy and in our power, but to do these things as a result of a certain state of character is neither easy nor in our power."
"Organic unity differs from contact; for in the latter case there need not be anything besides the contact, but in organic unities there is something identical in both parts, which makes them grow together instead of merely touching, and be one in respect of continuity and quantity, though not of quality."
"Let this, then, be the definition."
"For in leprosy the hair becomes grey, and so it is impossible for leprosy to occur in those in whom the hair does not turn grey."
"An alliance must be dispensed with when it is unnecessary or when the proposed allies are too far distant and unable to arrive at the opportune moment."
"Nothing worth mentioning has been observed in the inhabitants of the sea, but the so called 'rhinobates' especially is thought to spring from the union of the rhine and the batus."
"For in all animals after the stomach comes the gut."
"Therefore recrimination is very frequent in this sort of friendship; and the reason is that it is unnatural; for friendships based on utility and based on excellence are different; but these wish to have both together, associating together really for the sake of utility, but representing their friendship as moral, like that of good men; pretending to trust one another they make out their friendship to be not merely legal."
"Why is it that when the orchestra of a theatre is spread with straw, the chorus makes less sound?"
"Definition mongers too nearly always render them in this way; for they declare the unit to be the principle of number, and the point the principle of a line."
"The young grubs are not all developed at one and the same time into young spiders; but the moment the development takes place, the young spider makes a leap and begins to spin his web."
"Now, in the first place, it is a mistake to say that the soul is a magnitude."
"with the same rhythm and regularity."
"For it is necessary at some time for one or the other of them to belong to everything capable of receiving them."
"Now there is a difference between the object of thought and the object of sense; and these we recognize by soul."
"What the followers of Empedocles and Democritus do, though without observing it themselves, is to reduce the generation of elements out of one another to an illusion."
"A third kind of quality consists of affective qualities and affections."
"The etesian winds blow after the summer solstice and the rising of the dogstar: not at the time when the sun is closest nor when it is distant; and they blow by day and cease at night."
"All the Crustacea can crawl as well as swim, and accordingly they are provided with numerous feet."
"But if fire is naturally such as to move in a certain direction, clearly the same may be supposed to hold of earth."
"and Why is there a rainbow?"
"Let this second contrariety be dryness and moistness, being dryness and moistness."
"You will have a warmer bed in amongst the goats than among the sheep, because the goats will be quieter and will creep up towards you; for the goat is more impatient of cold than the sheep."
"If this pillar gets moistened and inflamed it is called the uvula, and it then has a tendency to bring about suffocation."
"Why is it that we can turn the gaze of both eyes simultaneously towards the right and the left and in the direction of the nose, and that of one eye to the left or to the right, but cannot direct them simultaneously one to the right and the other to the left?"
"We must inquire then whether anything unnecessary has been assumed, or anything necessary has been omitted, and we must posit the one and take away the other, until we have reached the two propositions; for unless we have these, we cannot reduce arguments put forward in the way described."
"Will the good man love himself most of all or not?"
"Examples are of two kinds; for some things turn out according to our expectations, others contrary to them."
"These considerations also explain why this experience befalls people at random and not the most intelligent."
"Besides the region is full of the biggest and brightest constellations and also of what are called 'scattered' stars (you have only to look to see this clearly)."
"a He who would duly inquire about the best form of a state ought first to determine which is the most eligible life; while this remains uncertain the best form of the state must also be uncertain; for, in the natural order of things, those men may be expected to lead the best life who are governed in the best manner of which their circumstances admit."
"However, the differences in respect to the wombs of these fishes as compared with one another and with fishes in general, would be more accurately studied in their various forms in the Anatomies."
"But he must select not those which follow some of the thing but those which follow the thing as a whole, eg"
"Similarly the semen collects in the testicles and penis."
"which include an attribute belonging to all things universally."
"Consequently, also, it is unknowable, qua infinite; for the matter has no form."
"From the fertile eggs, as the little fish grow, a kind of sheath detaches itself; this is a membrane that envelops the egg and the young fish."
"Sometimes it becomes acid as in Sicania, a part of Sicily."
"and the unjust always involve more than one person."
"This explains why hurricanes and thunderbolts and all analogous phenomena move downwards in spite of the fact that everything hot has a natural tendency upwards."
"These latter are used because they counteract the tendency of the sweet to be too nutrient, and to float on the stomach."
"For saltness and bitterness appear at the same time."
"Again, if Socrates makes the women common, and retains private property, the men will see to the fields, but who will see to the house?"
"If, then, the questioner is unable to pursue his argument farther, the objection will be directed against the questioner; if he can do so, then it will be against his questions."
"because the other movements are measured by this, and time by this movement."
"So while a thing in a finite time cannot come in contact with things quantitatively infinite, it can come in contact with things infinite in respect of divisibility; for in this sense the time itself is also infinite: and so we find that the time occupied by the passage over the infinite is not a finite but an infinite time, and the contact with the infinites is made by means of moments not finite but infinite in number."
"For a man seems to us a friend, who wishes the good or what he thinks to be such to someone, not on his own account but for the sake of that other; or, in another way, if he wishes for another man existence even if he is not bestowing goods on that other's account and not on his own, he would seem most of all to be a friend to him."
"In the mountain called Deer Mountain, which is in Arginussa in Asia Minor the place where Alcibiades died all the hinds have one ear split, so that, if they stray to a distance, they can be recognized by this mark; and the embryo actually has the mark while yet in the womb of the mother."
"Of those who have treated of governments, some have never taken any part at all in public affairs, but have passed their lives in a private station; about most of them, what was worth telling has been already told."
"The fishing season for the tunny begins at the rising of the Pleiads and lasts, at the longest, down to the setting of Arcturus; during the rest of the year they are hid and inactive."
"To it is not possible that A should belong either to all or to none or to some or not to some, since propositions in the mode of possibility are convertible and it is possible for to belong to more things than."
"For if A does not belong to some, but to every, then will not belong to some."
"The following parts, which we will name, are found in all plants, and admit of growth and addition namely, the root, the shoots, the stem, and the branches; these resemble the limbs of animals which include all the other limbs."
"In general, that which is becoming appears as something imperfect and proceeding to a principle; and so what is posterior in the order of becoming is prior in the order of nature."
"But, you will say, there may be factions among them, whereas the one man is not divided against himself."
"Sometimes it remains in this place; at other times, if the uterus chance to be conveniently placed and hot on account of the purgation, it draws it within itself."
"So will touch a given circumference."
"Evidently it will make no difference even if we make the affirmation universally."
"Why is it that the plague alone among diseases infects particularly persons who come into contact with those who are under treatment for it?"
"And similarly with the things of which optics and mathematical harmonics treat."
"Now heat is light, and so, the further the perfumes penetrate, the more does their scent become purified from other concomitant odours produced by their leaves and by smoke, which is a watery steam; at a short distance, on the other hand, the mingled odours are simultaneously perceptible in the plants in which they are present."
"Things, then, which are hot are nearer to change, but when they cool they become stable again."
"Further, with contraries it is possible (while the thing capable of receiving them is there) for change into one another to occur, unless the one belongs to something by nature as being hot does to fire."
"I mention Plato because, while all hold place to be something, he alone tried to say what it is."
"Then the extremities too remain in the same position, so that the moon must have a crescent shape to a greater or less extent according to the sun's movement; for when the sun changes its position, the circle upon which it looks also turns, remaining on the same points; for it might assume an infinite number of inclinations, since an infinite number of the largest circles can be described through the same points."
"So that neither being nor object of knowledge is the genus of object of opinion; for of the objects of which the species is predicated, the genus ought to be predicated as well."
"Of ears, some are smooth, some are shaggy, and some are of medium texture; the last kind are best for hearing, but they serve in no way to indicate character."
"Since it seems that there is nothing outside and separate in existence from sensible spatial magnitudes, the objects of thought are in the sensible forms, viz."
"Unanimity also seems to be a friendly relation."
"Skilful, indeed, would he be in interpreting such reflexions who could rapidly discern, and at a glance comprehend, the scattered and distorted fragments of such forms, so as to perceive that one of them represents a man, or a horse, or anything"
"Since, however, of what is proper to anything part signifies its essence, while part does not, let us divide the proper into both the aforesaid parts, and call that part which indicates the essence a definition, while of the remainder let us adopt the terminology which is generally current about these things, and speak of it as a property."
"It is active only as contributing to destruction or incidentally in the manner described before; for cold is sometimes actually said to burn and to warm, but not in the same way as heat does, but by collecting and concentrating heat."
"Isocrates means more than that, and uses the word with a new meaning."
"The total number of the senses (for we have no experience of any special sense not here included), is five: sight, hearing, smell, taste, and touch."
"So Leodamas, when accusing Callistratus, said that the man who prompted the deed was more guilty than the doer, since it would not have been done if he had not planned it."
"This then would be the good"
"Why is it that quick running causes a tendency to disease in the head both in man and in the other animals?"
"But if it is to be in something and yet remains separate in such a way that it is in no sense a part of that body (neither intrinsically nor accidentally, many impossibilities will result."
"There is no difficulty in answering this question, on grounds both of reason and of fact."
"air, and others ca the earth"
"Why', he went on, 'fish need salt', improbable and incredible as this might seem for creatures reared in salt water; 'and olive cakes need oil', incredible as it is that what produces oil should need it."
"The things which are just by virtue of convention and expediency are like measures; for wine and corn measures are not everywhere equal, but larger in wholesale and smaller in retail markets."
"If then it is assumed that belongs to every, it has been proved that belongs to some, but that belongs to some has not been proved."
"This is the very question that we reviewed in our discussion of problems, viz."
"For not every mover can act, if we are to contrast agent with patient and patient is to be applied only to those things whose motion is a quality ie a quality, like white or hot, in respect to which they are altered: on the contrary, moving is wider than acting."
"For what will that be which can destroy it, if destruction comes only through contraries, but no contrary to it exists either absolutely or in the particular place where it is?"
"They say that because it is at rest, the earth must necessarily have this shape."
"They recognize only the hemisphere which is over us."
"Neither did the first introducer of the common meals, called 'phiditia', regulate them well."
"The final cause of their growth has been now stated, but besides this as a matter of fact the nature of the teeth is not the same as that of the other bones."
"It is the accumulation of this in excess in the lower region that produces sleep, taking away the power of standing upright from those animals to whom that posture is natural, and from the rest the power of holding up the head."
"Now either all these things must be equalized, or some limit must be imposed on them, or they must all be let alone."
"In a sense there is one formula of each thing, ie the formula of its essence, but in a sense there are many, since the thing itself and the thing itself modified in a certain way are somehow the same, eg Socrates and musical Socrates."
"But of what he is doing a man might be ignorant, as for instance people say 'it slipped out of their mouths as they were speaking', or 'they did not know it was a secret', as Aeschylus said of the mysteries, or a man might say he 'let it go off when he merely wanted to show its working', as the man did with the catapult."
"Well, when this disappears into the earth the vaporous exhalation concentrates because of the moisture and causes cold in any place in which this disappearance occurs."
"This might seem absurd at first sight, because 'a man is not white' looks as it if signifies also at the same time that no man is white; this, however, does not signify the same, nor does it necessarily hold at the same time."
"Is it because each has more effect on one part of the body?"
"Those that depend upon whether something is said in a certain respect only or said without qualification occur because the affirmation and the denial are not concerned with the same point."
"If, then, any one else renders a property in this way one should attack it; for oneself, one should not give occasion for this objection, but should define in what manner one states the property at the actual time of making the statement."
"For what man is cannot be an individual, as Callias is."
"The life which they are to lead appears to be quite impracticable."
"For the privation too is in a way form."
"But the friendship based on pleasure is that of the young, for they are sensitive to pleasure; therefore also their friendship easily changes; for with a change in their characters as they grow up there is also a change in their pleasures."
"On the same principle, even if it be better for certain individuals to govern, they should be made only guardians and ministers of the law."
"The family is the association established by nature for the supply of men's everyday wants, and the members of it are called by Charondas, 'companions of the cupboard', and by Epimenides the Cretan, 'companions of the manger'."
"The she goats in Cephallenia do not drink, as it appears, like other quadrupeds; but daily turning their faces towards the sea, open their mouths, and take in the breezes."
"Though in one respect there is reason in the explanation which Empedocles aims at establishing, yet his account is not correct."
"Is it because sweat is not caused by moisture alone, but is also due to the fact that the pores are opened wider and the body becomes porous?"
"From the central cavity the fluid is discharged into the bladder by the ducts that have been mentioned, having already assumed in great degree the character of excremental residue."
"he who is sightless in both eyes that is called blind."
"But this too is impossible."
"On the other hand, to honour the gods you will declare to be honourable without adding anything; hence that is honourable without qualification."
"For why is this horse other than this man in species, although their matter is included with their formulae?"
"Therefore since this exists, everything after this will occur of necessity, so that all things occur of necessity."
"But it is not possible that when one actually remembers he should not suppose himself to remember, but should remember unconsciously."
"(this being especially true of the mullet), and after parturition they are in repose."
"There are other winds which have no contraries."
"Now if nature makes nothing incomplete, and nothing in vain, the inference must be that she has made all animals for the sake of man."
"Some things are malleable, like copper."
"But it turns out that even in these we use for the demonstration the very thing that is being proved; for is proved of, and of, by assuming that is said of, and is proved of A through these propositions, so that we use the conclusion for the demonstration."
"For no horse is a man."
"Those are the quickest to be delivered who experience severe pains in the region of the belly; and parturition is difficult in those who begin by suffering pain in the loins, and speedy when the pain is abdominal."
"Moreover, upon this principle any good may be compared with any other."
"Let us then apply the term 'heavy' to that which naturally moves towards the centre, and 'light' to that which moves naturally away from the centre."
"Is it true that while motion has the same effect, yet quick motion, owing to the strain and the holding of the breath which it involves, causes heat in the head and inflates the veins in it and renders them liable to be affected by external influences, such as cold and heat, and by the contents of the trunk; and that if these can enter the head, disease is necessarily engendered in that region?"
"The windpipe then, owing to its position in front of the oesophagus, is exposed, as we have said, to annoyance from the food."
"For if you like to set down fire and water as the extreme opposites, these are useful to one another."
"So we have explained that the same parts of the earth are not always land or sea and why that is so; and also why some rivers are perennial and others not."
"Is it because the heat as it is engendered in the bottom of the vessel is extinguished by the water?"
"Thus that A belongs to and that A belongs to are similar."
"First, then, we must address ourselves to the first argument, that about becoming, and must endeavour to dispose of this on the ground of its not being true."
"Now when the injury takes place contrary to reasonable expectation, it is a misadventure."
"and so is the potential, generation proceeds from the latter,"
"And, indeed, if a man suspected the physician of being in league with his enemies to destroy him for a bribe, he would rather have recourse to the book."
"presents many difficulties."
"There is, on the one hand, something which comes to be, and again something which becomes that the latter in two senses, either the subject or the opposite."
"Therefore also such men do not rejoice or grieve with themselves; for their soul is rent by faction, and one element in it by reason of its wickedness grieves when it abstains from certain acts, while the other part is pleased, and one draws them this way and the other that, as if they were pulling them in pieces."
"The younger females both with horses and cattle are the first to get in heat; and their sexual appetites are all the keener if the weather be warm and their bodily condition be healthy."
"(for example, when a man moves a stick in his hand), it is evident that the soul could not lie in either of the two extreme points, neither, that is, in the last point of what is moved, nor in the other origin."
"And if he is not right, but more right than he who judges in the other way, being will already be of a definite nature, and this will be true, and not at the same time also not true."
"A fourth kind of democracy is that which comes latest in the history of states."
"For he needs no contrivance or the service of others, as our earthly rulers, owing to their feebleness, need many hands to do their work; but it is most characteristic of the divine to be able to accomplish diverse kinds of work with ease and by simple movement, even as machine operators by one turn on a machine accomplish many different operations."
"So that, since there is neither self control nor incontinence in such cases, neither will incontinence be praiseworthy or self control blameworthy in the way that was thought."
"Therefore in one sense nothing will have a definition and nothing will have an essence, except substances, but in another sense other things will have them."
"A bee carries water when it is rearing grubs."
"We can also see what things and what persons give pleasure to envious people, and in what states of mind they feel it: the states of mind in which they feel pain are those under which they will feel pleasure in the contrary things."
"For when their wealth gave them a greater inclination to leisure, and they had loftier notions of excellence, being also elated with their success, both before and after the Persian War, with more zeal than discernment they pursued every kind of knowledge, and so they introduced the flute into education."
"Again, in plants too we find that for the sake of which, though the degree of organization is less."
"For number qua number has peculiar attributes, such as oddness and evenness, commensurability and equality, excess and defect, and these belong to numbers either in themselves or in relation to one another."
"Is it because the nut is crushed on two of its sides by two levers, and weights can easily be divided with a lever?"
"This is what ripening means when the word is applied to fruit."
"(What we mean by perversion will be hereafter explained.)"
"Now the semen escapes from this tube, and the area in front of the womb is much larger than the path by which the semen escaped into this region."
"We have considered the opinions and propositions useful for persuasive arguments in these areas; for it is about these and on the basis of them that enthymemes are constructed, separately for each type of speech."
"not they but the physician has to; so in one way the art of household management, in another way the subordinate art, has to consider about wealth."
"The reason is that the midriff serves to divide the region of the heart from the region of the stomach, so that the centre wherein abides the sensory soul may be undisturbed, and not be overwhelmed, directly food is taken, by its up steaming vapour and by the abundance of heat then superinduced."
"(When I say 'by addition' I mean the expressions in which we have to say the same thing twice, as in these instances.)"
"Both the lawless man and the grasping and unequal man are thought to be unjust, so that evidently both the law abiding and the equal man will be just."
"For it would have regularly occurred both in the daytime and to the wise"
"For just as nature has made man's tongue unlike that of other animals, and, in accordance with what I have said is her not uncommon practice, has used it for two distinct operations, namely for the perception of savours and for speech, so also has she acted with regard to the lips, and made them serve both for speech and for the protection of the teeth."
"And whereas states consist of two classes, of poor men and of rich, the tyrant should lead both to imagine that they are preserved and prevented from harming one another by his rule, and whichever of the two is stronger he should attach to his government"
"It is a mark of the proud man also to ask for nothing or scarcely anything, but to give help readily, and to be dignified towards people who enjoy high position and good fortune, but unassuming towards those of the middle class; for it is a difficult and lofty thing to be superior to the former, but easy to be so to the latter, and a lofty bearing over the former is no mark of ill breeding, but among humble people it is as vulgar as a display of strength against the weak."
"Now excellent actions are noble and done for the sake of the noble."
"We have now explained the cause why colour cannot be seen otherwise than in light."
"the latter of the two movements."
"For if justice is the will of the few, any one person who has more wealth than all the rest of the rich put together, ought, upon the oligarchical principle, to have the sole power but this would be tyranny; or if justice is the will of the majority, as I was before saying, they will unjustly confiscate the property of the wealthy minority."
"Select, moreover, arguments relating to the same thesis and range them side by side; for this produces a plentiful supply of arguments for carrying a point by force, and in refutation also it is of great service, whenever one is well stocked with arguments pro and con for then you find yourself on your guard against contrary statements."
"It is argued that the introduction of strangers brought up under other laws, and the increase of population, will be adverse to good order; the increase arises from their using the sea and having a crowd of merchants coming and going, and is inimical to good government."
"Yet part, too, of the revolution is a time, but it certainly is not a revolution; for what is taken is part of a revolution, not a revolution."
"Near the river Lycormas it is said that a plant grows, which is like a lance, and is most beneficial in the case of dim sight."
"for the audience whenever they began to nod'."
"may be a blend of many colours, though the sensation produced is not of a blend but of some colour predominant in the blend."
"But those who say the Forms exist, in one respect are right, in saying the Forms exist apart, if they are substances; but in another respect they are not right, because they say the one in many is a Form."
"That being so, it is evident that, if the motion be single, both processes cannot occur since they are contrary to one another; for nature by the same cause, provided it remain in the same condition, always produces the same effect, so that either coming to be or passing away will always result."
"Why do some plants always produce empty stalks?"
"You must treat the other points in a similar manner."
"Thus it will be possible for A to belong to no C; for if that is supposed false, the consequence is impossible."
"These are the things whose nature remains the same after transposition, but whose form does not, eg wax or a coat; they are called both wholes and totals; for they have both characteristics."
"For there will be Air, when the cold of the Water and the dry of the Fire have passed away (since the hot of the latter and the moist of the former are left); whereas, when the hot of the Fire and the moist of the Water have passed away, there will be Earth, owing to the survival of the dry of the Fire and the cold of the Water."
"Hence neither will motion and change have reference to something over and above the things mentioned; for there is nothing over and above them."
"And whenever one is affirmative, the other negative, and the affirmative is universal, the other can be proved."
"So just as a line is related to a point, in the same way what is coming about is related to what has come about; for infinitely many things that have come about inhere in what is coming about."
"And this term interest, which means the birth of money from money, is applied to the breeding of money because the offspring resembles the parent."
"We must not only raise these questions about the first principles, but also ask whether they are universal or what we call individuals."
"If a man who is quite young or quite old is speaking in public, his hearers feel annoyance; for they think that the former ought not yet to have begun to speak, while the latter ought before now to have ceased speaking."
"For then if what is proper to each case be abstracted, the same phrase ought to remain over."
"Properly, then, he will be called brave who is fearless in face of a noble death, and of all emergencies that involve death; and the emergencies of war are in the highest degree of this kind."
"Thus the essence of a house is assigned in such an account as 'a shelter against destruction by wind, rain, and heat'; the physicist would describe it as 'stones, bricks, and timbers'; but there is a third possible description which would say that it was that form in that material with I that purpose or end."
"Thus again, Seuthes the Thracian conspired against Amadocus, whose general he was."
"And they adduce an amount of evidence to prove that air, when cut off and at rest, can bear a considerable weight."
"These considerations then would lead us to suppose that place is something distinct from bodies, and that every sensible body is in place."
"For indeed no lunatic seems to be so far out of his senses as to suppose that fire and ice are one: it is only between what is right, and what seems right from habit, that some people are mad enough to see no difference."
"But if some one were to say that pleasant and noble objects have a compelling power, forcing us from without, all acts would be for him compulsory; for it is for these objects that all men do everything they do."
"For of the latter class these predicates can at some time be truly asserted without qualification; for the seen is so called sometimes because it is being seen, sometimes because it is capable of being seen."
"The skin, when cut, is in itself devoid of sensation; and this is especially the case with the skin on the head, owing to there being no flesh between it and the skull."
"the mass forming from the material supplied by the female, so do the animals in question bring the same to pass and exert the same formative power by the movement within themselves in that part from which the semen is secreted."
"and shall we give the thousand a power equal to that of the five hundred?"
"This, then, is the meaning of calling two things other in species that they are contrary, being in the same genus and being indivisible (and those things are the same in species, which have no contrariety, being indivisible); for in the process of division contrarieties arise even in the intermediate stages before we come to the indivisibles."
"For constructive purposes, on the other hand, see if what is as much a property is a property of that of which it is as much a property; for then also what is as much a property as it will be a property of that of which it is as much a property."
"It is evident that this is the best kind of democracy and why?"
"The weight of trees is made up in the same way."
"If he defines it as these things, the definition will be true of both and yet of neither of them; suppose,.g., justice to be defined as temperance and courage."
"Wild and garden plants can be distinguished by virtue of the male and female, each being recognizable by its peculiar characteristics; for the male is thicker and harder and has more branches and less moisture and a smaller fruit, and does not reach such maturity; the leaves, too, and likewise the suckers are different."
"(encomia are bestowed on acts, whether of the body or of the soul but perhaps nicety in these matters is more proper to those who have made a study of encomia); but to us it is clear from what has been said that happiness is among the things that are prized and complete."
"Nor do we apply these names to those who delight in odour,"
"And therefore justice is often thought to be the greatest of excellences and 'neither evening nor morning star' is so wonderful; and proverbially 'in justice is every excellence comprehended'."
"But it is impossible that plants should sleep, for there is no sleep which cannot be broken, and the condition in plants which is analogous to sleep cannot be broken."
"Hence also when liquids are filtered through ashes, a bitter substance, the taste they yield is bitter."
"And similarly of the primary substances one is no more a substance than another: the individual man is no more a substance than the individual ox."
"If we consider we find that the syllable is not produced by the letters and juxtaposition, nor is the house bricks and juxtaposition."
"There must, however, be a point at rest if one is to move, the other to be moved."
"To sum up, then, since everything that is moved is moved in one of three ways, either accidentally, or partially, or essentially, change can change only accidentally, as eg when a man who is being restored to health runs or learns: and accidental change we have earlier decided to leave out of account."
"With some people as they grow old the eyebrows grow thicker, to such an extent that they have to be cut off; and this growth is owing to the fact that the eyebrows are situated at a conjuncture of bones, and these bones, as age comes on, draw apart and exude a gradual increase of moisture."
"Genesis from seeds always starts from the middle."
"of nutriment, animals with straight intestines are more violent in their desire for food, so those which have not testes but only ducts, or which have them indeed but internally, are all quicker in accomplishing copulation."
"Or 'How vain he would have been if he had proved all this instead of that!'"
"But we maintain that, if combination has taken place, the compound must be uniform any part of such a compound being the same as the whole, just as any part of water is water; whereas, if combination is composition of the small particles, nothing of the kind will happen."
"The grasshopper lays its eggs at the close of summer, and dies after laying them."
"It is single when it becomes immediate; and a single proposition simpliciter is an immediate one."
"Plainly, therefore, in the science of nature too our first task will be to try to determine what relates to its principles."
"Or again it may be said that there is a sign of laughter, but there is not a sign of a sign, consequently laughter is not a sign."
"Such are the laws which ought to be laid down regarding elections in a democratic state."
"We must, then, have some clear understanding as to the manner in which our investigation is to be conducted; whether, I mean, we are first to deal with the common or generic characters, and afterwards to take into consideration special peculiarities; or whether we are to start straight off with the particular species."
"For, if he means nothing, such a man will not be capable of reasoning, either with himself or with another."
"Thus much of military command."
"In the turtle the kidney resembles the same organ in the ox; that is to say, it looks like one single organ composed of a number of small ones."
"Whenever the deduction is formed in the last figure, the truth will be found in the first and middle figures, if affirmative in the first, if negative in the middle."
"When, moreover, the weight and corporeal substance become excessive, the body must of necessity incline towards the ground."
"For the first breath of wind as it were dies down before the wave which has been impelled by it into motion; and it is not the wave which is first set in motion that arrives, but there is a successive impetus given to the adjoining water."
"For it is the doctor who implants health and the man of science who implants science, although Health itself and Science itself are as well as the participants; and the same principle applies to everything else that is produced in accordance with a capacity."
"It is about things to be done, therefore, that people are said to be unanimous, and, among these, about matters of consequence and in which it is possible for both or all parties to get what they want; eg a city is unanimous when all its citizens think that the offices in it should be elective, or that they should form an alliance with Sparta, or that Pittacus should be their ruler at a time when he himself was also willing to rule."
"So much for the view that there is no change that admits of infinity or continuity except rotatory locomotion."
"The boar is capable of generation when eight months old, but, with a sire under a year in age, the litter is apt to be a poor one."
"This often occurs, however, among animals."
"Why is it that in marshes near rivers the so called 'bellowings' take place, which according to the fable are utter by the sacred bulls of the god?"
"Whether we are right or wrong in laying down this limit we will inquire more precisely hereafter, when we have occasion to consider what is the right use of property and wealth a matter which is much disputed, because men are inclined to rush into one of two extremes, some into meanness, others into luxury."
"And this is plain even in the rotation of continuous things, as in that of liquids."
"Elementary rules for producing anger are to make a show of the wish to play foul, and to be altogether shameless."
"It cannot then have any weight."
"The reason why there are many forms of government is that every state contains many elements."
"But as all influences require to be counterbalanced, so that they may be reduced to moderation and brought to the mean (for in the mean, and not in either extreme, lies their substance and account), nature has contrived the brain as a counterpoise to the region of the heart with its contained heat, and has given it to animals to moderate the latter, combining in it the properties of earth and water."
"For it is the pleasure more than anything else which incites animals to sexual intercourse."
"How we ought to watch out for the middle in reference to each conclusion, is evident from our knowing what kind of thesis is proved in each figure."
"For there one both has to establish all those other points by deduction (i.e. that the attributes stated belong, and that what is rendered is the genus, and that the account is proper), and moreover, besides this, that the account indicates the essence of the thing; and this has to be done correctly."
"This is shown by the fact that the wool of young sheep is softer than that of old."
"Lastly, certain living beings a small minority possess calculation and thought, for (among mortal beings)"
"For the difference between things which differ in species must be a contrariety; and this belongs only to things in the same genus."
"A body, then, which is far beyond the force which tries to push it, does not yield at all; while that which is far weaker offers no resistance."
"And in general man would be not one but more than one thing, animal and biped."
"Is it because about birth it is impossible to lie, but the truth must be declared, whereas before now many wills have been proved to be forged?"
"man has a tendency to partnership with those to whom he is by nature akin."
"Now there is a difference between the lovable and what is to be loved, as between the desirable and what is to be desired."
"And so in a single body composed of parts, provided that it is uniform in colour, the parts must necessarily appear equidistant, and the equidistant must appear to be uniform and flat."
"He then went to the other party and showed them what he had received from their opponents; whereupon they also professed their willingness to give him an equal sum."
"Indignation is roused by the sight of wealth, power, and the like by all those things, roughly speaking, which are deserved by good men and by those who possess the goods of nature noble birth, beauty, and so on."
"All animals, however, that are hair coated are viviparous."
"And for this reason it seems to be always different; for the 'now' is not the beginning and the end of the same thing; if it were, it would be at the same time and in the same respect two opposites."
"A similar statement must be made about our knowledge of what is sensible on the same ground, viz."
"For instance, you can show that a certain state has acted selfishly towards its allies and that their friendship has thus been dissolved, and then say, 'We on the other hand, if we behave fairly and impartially towards our allies, shall keep their alliance for a long time'; or again, you can show that certain others have gone to war without due preparation and have consequently been defeated, and then say, 'If we were to go to war properly prepared, we should have better hopes of success'."
"It is not every chance direction which is up, but where fire and what is light are carried; similarly, too, down is not any chance direction but where what has weight and what is made of earth are carried the implication being that these places do not differ merely in position, but also as possessing distinct powers."
"Hence one ought not to call those brave whose courage is due to experience."
"This, then, is one meaning of quality differentia of substance, but there is another sense in which it applies to the unmovable objects of mathematics; ie the numbers have a certain quality, eg the composite numbers which are not in one dimension only, but of which the plane and the solid are copies (these are those which have two or three factors); and in general that which exists in the substance of numbers besides quantity is quality; for the substance of each is what it is once, eg that of is not what it is twice or thrice, but"
"It is evident then that it belongs to one science to be able to give an account of these concepts as well as of substance."
"eg the definition of body as that which has three dimensions, or the definition of man, supposing anyone to give it, as that which knows how to count; for it is not stated what it is that has three dimensions, or what it is that knows how to count; whereas the genus is meant to indicate what it is, and is submitted first of the terms in the definition."
"We must inquire, then, as we say, into these questions, and also whether our investigation is concerned only with substances or also with the essential attributes of substances."
"not merely (to quote his words) 'a combining and a divorce of what has been combined'."
"The cause of this lies in their substance."
"But in all cases, as has been said, we have regard to the agent as well and ask who he is and what means he has; for the expenditure should be worthy of his means, and suit not only the result but also the producer."
"Now, loving having two senses, does actual love seem to involve pleasure because activity is good?"
"It will now be well to make a complete classification of just and unjust actions."
"That which blows from it, therefore, is not cold, because it is not itself cold, nor does it cool quickly, because it is not very hot."
"As they act the stories, it follows that in the first place the spectacle must be some part of the whole; and in the second melody and diction, these two being the means of their imitation."
"Hence fire will be first in the natural order."
"Heat appears to cause both coagulation and melting."
"Just as in the case of the body when the stomach is dry the lower belly is often in the contrary state, and when it is dry the stomach is moist and cold, so it often happens that the exhalations reciprocally take one another's place and interchange."
"The text is corrupt: Michael of Ephesus explains that the man has a brush tied to his head which traces a line along the wall as he walks."
"Blood is finest and purest in man; and thickest and blackest in the bull and the ass, of all vivipara."
"This malady is worst at the full moon; and it is a dangerous symptom when the spasms begin in the child's back."
"Again, sleep belongs of necessity to each animal."
"because what we hear with is a chamber which contains a bounded mass of air."
"But since the two former show their nature respectively by excess and defect and where there are extremes, there is also a mean and that is best, a single best for each kind of action liberality must be the mean between lavishness and meanness in regard to the acquisition and expenditure of wealth."
"You must, then, state what you have said and why you have said it."
"At length the exiles, becoming numerous, returned, and, engaging and defeating the people, established the oligarchy."
"The text is corrupt Reading ho Mysos, opheilon stratiotais misthon, sygkalesas tous hegemonas."
"Things are indirectly moved which are moved as being contained in something which is moved, eg sailors, for they are moved in a different sense from that in which the ship is moved; the ship is directly moved, they are indirectly moved, because they are in a moving vessel."
"Is it because one who is chilled holds his breath rather than exhales, and a sleeper exhales rather than inhales?"
"The inhabitants still point out their tombs, which are in full view of one another, but one is visible from the Corinthian territory, the other not."
"Moreover, you should determine what kind of things should be called as most men call them, and what should not."
"Moreover, animals have the flexions of their fore and hind limbs in directions opposite to one another, and in directions opposite to the joints in man; with the exception of the elephant."
"But this is also the ratio of to Omitting eph' ho he."
"It is the same matter, but its being is different, as that which is receptive of disease is the same as See above,."
"You must also introduce maxims and enthymemes, as in persuasion, and refute anticipations, and in conclusion employ iteration."
"There is a mixture of bodies, however, not merely such as some suppose, ie by juxtaposition of their minimal parts, which, owing to sense, are imperceptible by us, but a mixture by which they are wholly blent together, as we have described it in the treatise on mixture, where we dealt with this subject generally in its most comprehensive aspect."
"I mean perceiving the several objects in a time one and indivisible relatively to one another."
"A sufficient evidence of this is that nothing comes into being without itself moving somehow and acting, but a thing can be destroyed even if it does not move at all."
"But not all cases are alike; inequality is the privation of equality and unlikeness of likeness, and vice is the privation of excellence."
"But as they get bigger they become more perfectly developed, and many of them grow up."
"We have no common name for a mime of Sophron or Xenarchus and a Socratic Conversation; and we should still be without one even if the imitation in the two instances were in trimeters or elegiacs or some other kind of verse though it is the way."
"First, then, we must inquire whether any property belonging to the city is neglected, neither bringing in any revenue nor being dedicated to the gods:"
"In the human species, the male is generative, at the longest, up to seventy years, and the female up to fifty; but such extended periods are rare, for few produce children at those ages."
"These animals can remain under water for a time, which relatively to their bodily strength, is considerable."
"So much, then, of the parts which appertain to the head."
"All these originate from the imprisonment of the vaporous exhalation in the earth, and especially in stones."
"Further, every opinion is accompanied by belief, belief by conviction, and conviction by discourse of reason, while there are some of the brutes in which we find imagination, without discourse of reason."
"That some should appoint from all, and that sometimes all should appoint from some, by vote, is aristocratic."
"single and undivided, including its he and any other part it may possess."
"In the case of those which contain matter each of the objects of thought is only potentially present."
"It does not solidify under the influence of cold and it is apt to burn."
"The chief forms of beauty are order and symmetry and definiteness, which the mathe (M) matical sciences demonstrate in a special degree."
"Why is it that one who is having sexual intercourse, and also a dying person, casts his eyes upwards, while a sleeper casts them downwards?"
"There is a considerable difficulty in understanding how the plant is formed out of the seed or any animal out of the semen."
"By the starting points of demonstration"
"And these opinions are plausibly supported by such evidence as that children are born with a likeness to their parents, not only in congenital but also in acquired characteristics; for before now, when the parents have had scars, the children have been born with a mark in the form of the scar in the same place, and there was a case at Chalcedon where the father had a brand on his arm and the letter was marked on the child, only confused and not clearly articulated."
"The one assigns the material conditions, the other the form or account; for what he states is the account of the fact, though for its actual existence there must be embodiment of it in a material such as is described by the other."
"If, on the other hand, it has been changing in both and (for it must either have changed or be changing in each of them), it must have been changing in the whole too; but our assumption was that it had changed in that."
"Such, for example, are the eel and all other fishes of serpent like form."
"Hence Socrates was not speaking correctly when he said that excellence was reason, thinking that it was no use doing brave and just acts, unless one did them from knowledge and rational choice."
"And these characteristics are three: See Physics."
"For if the food is responsible for the change, we should expect varied food to increase the variety in the movements and in the residual matter of the food, from which come into being hairs and feathers and skins."
"This is opposed to courage and spirit, being the same in kind."
"For a man is good absolutely by being good, but a friend by being good for another, and absolutely good and a friend when these two attributes are combined so that what is absolutely good is good for the other, or else not absolutely good for the good man, but good to another in the sense of useful."
"Since, then, choice is not any of these singly, and these are the things that there are in the soul, choice must result from the combination of some of them."
"Really there is no similarity."
"It is the nature of those creatures which do not emit semen to remain united a long time until the male element has formed the embryo, as with those insects which copulate."
"However, there is nothing to prevent genera subordinate one to the other from having the same differentiae."
"Thus (e.g.) he who renders it as a property of existing to be capable of being acted upon or of acting, in rendering the property potentially, has rendered the property relatively to something that exists; for when it is existent, it will be capable of being acted upon or of Omitting me (Verdenius)."
"Anyone who wishes to speak in favour of a law must show that it affects all equally, that it harmonizes with the rest of the laws, and that it is beneficial to the city, particularly in promoting concord; failing this, he must show that it will conduce to virtue among the citizens or that it will benefit the public revenue or the good repute of the city as a whole, or that it will strengthen the power of the state, or that it will confer some similar advantage."
"Similarly it will be possible if the deductions are probative to reduce them ad impossibile in the terms which have been taken, whenever the opposite of the conclusion is taken as a premiss."
"It is clear, then, that by the time that he has become sick, he must also have changed to whatever may be the other change concerned"
"So the motive body also will be infinite."
"And patients who during suppression of the menses happen to vomit blood are no whit the worse."
"The facts having been proved, the natural thing to do next is to magnify or minimize their importance."
"it is called a fire wind; for its fire colours the neighbouring air and inflames it."
"For sleep, as has been shown, is not any given impotence of the perceptive faculty; for unconsciousness, a certain form of asphyxia, and swooning, all produce such impotence."
"They are committed to the view that every indivisible is incapable alike of being acted upon (for nothing can suffer action except through the void) and of producing a quality"
"It might be asked why we have more senses than one."
"increases and produces gold, and that this is an observable fact."
"For the exact opposite seems then to become the consequent; since, if what is not is something that is and what is is something that is, all things are; for both the things which are, and the things which are not, are."
"For it is because of the comparison of the two cases that the solution is not found, the case compared being in itself truly enough stated."
"For it is natural to suppose that, if the motion of a single star excites a flame, that of all the stars should have a similar result, and especially in that region in which the stars are biggest and most numerous and nearest to one another."
"Why then does it not perfect the parts and the animal?"
"The beginning of child bearing in women and of the capacity to procreate in men, and the cessation of these functions in both cases, coincide in the one case with the emission of seed and in the other with the discharge of the menstrual fluids: with this qualification, that there is a lack of fertility at the commencement of these symptoms, and again towards their close when the emissions become scanty and weak."
"But the kind of rule differs the freeman rules over the slave after another manner from that in which the male rules over the female, or the man over the child; although the parts of the soul are present in all of them, they are present in different degrees."
"the egg is still attached to the uterus when perfect."
"number, the other animals find pleasure only in the two already mentioned; in the others they find no pleasure, or, if they do, it is only incidentally."
"Acute intelligence will be seen more in small creatures than in large ones, as is exemplified in the case of birds by the nest building of the swallow."
"And even if it is true to say that the white is musical, 'musical white' will still not be one thing; for it is accidentally that the musical is white, and so 'white musical' will not be one."
"Profligacy, then, having many senses, it is clear that it has to do with certain pleasures and pains, and that the forms differ from one another and from other states by the kind of attitude towards these; we have already stated how, in the use of the word 'profligacy', we apply it to various states by analogy."
"One should also, wherever possible, secure the universal proposition by a definition relating not to the terms themselves but to their co ordinates; for people are deceived whenever the definition is taken in regard to a co ordinate, into thinking that they are not making the admission"
"Look and see, further, whether the differentia belongs only by accident to the object defined."
"with the scaly integument of fish and reptiles, then the testes must be internal."
"Now the same phenomenon is observed in fishes as in terrestrial animals in regard to hibernation: in other words, during winter fishes take to concealing themselves, and quit their places of concealment in the warmer season."
"When the ignorance is the cause of his doing something, he I does not do this voluntarily, so that he does not commit injustice; but when he is himself the cause of his ignorance and does something in accordance with the ignorance of which he is himself the cause, then he is guilty of injustice, and such a person will justly be called unjust."
"For, of all animals, man alone stands erect."
"But in that case there is not one but several deductions."
"Then and and will have the same ratios to one another as, and."
"But contrarieties of movements correspond to those of places."
"But at all events we observe then that in one way the void is described as what is not full of body perceptible to touch; and what has heaviness and lightness is perceptible to touch."
"For when we are convinced that we excel in the qualities for which we are jeered at, we can ignore the jeering."
"This fact is what we should expect, for by the time that the white and yolk are separated off from one another, the bird's egg already contains the principle that comes from the male parent (for the male contributes this)."
"The constituents of honour are: sacrifices; commemoration, in verse or prose; privileges; grants of land; front seats at civic celebrations; state burial; statues; public maintenance; among foreigners, obeisances and giving place; and such presents as are among various bodies of men regarded as marks of honour."
"Why is it that the sun bleaches wax and olive oil, but darkens the flesh?"
"But if the place is covered up, plants will grow in it, but without leaves, because it is cut off from the equable temperature of the earth which is congenial to it."
"For besides other considerations, everybody is more inclined to neglect something which he expects another to fulfil; as in families many attendants are often less useful than a few."
"Is it because to induce sleep warm moisture must be present, for it is easily concocted?"
"For their having in them a bad principle contributes greatly to their powers of mischief, but in the beast there is no principle at all."
": that is why we feel ashamed to refuse those a favour who ask one for the first time we have not as yet lost credit with them."
"the term 'good' is used."
"Is it because we cease desiring sweet things sooner?"
"There are three things which inspire confidence in the orator's own character the three, namely, that induce us to believe a thing apart from any proof of it: good sense, excellence, and goodwill."
"So much for the dates at which these animals attain to generative capacity."
"However, the razor fish, if you make a noise, appears to burrow in the sand, and to hide himself deeper when he hears the approach of the iron rod (for the animal juts a little out of its hole, while the greater part of the body remains within), and scallops, if you present your finger near their open valves, close them tight again as though they could see what you were doing."
"If, however, he pushes or pulls from outside he does move it; for the ground is no part of the boat."
", that is to say, there is another place, infinite like itself, to which it will move."
"Nothing, then, which is without qualification imperishable is without qualification potentially (though there is nothing to prevent its being potentially in some respect, eg potentially of a certain quality or in a certain place); imperishable things, then, exist actually."
"For nature, like thought, always does whatever it does for the sake of something, which something is its end."
"For the union lasts until that which is analogous to the semen has done its work, and when they separate the female produces the embryo quickly; for the young is imperfect inasmuch as all such creatures give birth to grubs."
"that to know a thing is to think of it."
"So, according to Hesiod, it would be necessary that there should be First and foremost a house, a woman, and an ox for the plough. ."
"This, then, is the case with the excellences also; by doing the acts that we do in our transactions with other men we become just or unjust, and by doing the acts that we do in the presence of danger, and being habituated to feel fear or confidence, we become brave or cowardly."
"If the axiom is relevant but too implausible, the answerer, while admitting that if it is granted the conclusion sought follows, should yet protest that the proposition is too silly."
"All this is more likely to occur in the case of one who is both lustful and effeminate."
"If the place is in the thing (it must be if it is either shape or matter)"
"when, I say, the more solid part comes together, the liquid is separated off from it, and as the earthy parts solidify membranes form all round it"
"Of eyes, some are large, some small, some medium sized; of these, the mediumsized are the best."
"thus (e.g.) being and one are among the attributes that follow everything."
"Down to the Italian school, then, and apart from it, philosophers have treated these subjects rather obscurely, except that, as we said, they have used two kinds of cause, and one of these the source of movement some treat as one and others as two."
"Moreover, people who define in this way put effect for cause, or cause for effect."
"In this then marrow is formed; this being the only spine in which there is space for it, and, moreover, being the only one which owing to its division into parts requires a connecting bond."
"But evidently knowledge and perception and opinion and understanding have always something else as their object, and themselves only by the way."
"That from which (as an immanent part) a thing first arises, eg as the keel of a ship and the foundation of a house, while in animals some suppose the heart, others the brain, others some other part, to be of this nature."
"Thus Artapanes conspired against Xerxes and slew him, fearing that he would be accused of hanging Darius against his orders he having been under the impression that Xerxes would forget what he had said in the middle of a meal, and that the offence would be forgiven."
"For instance, such as these are morbid."
"Now whether there is also another type of understanding we shall say later; but See Plato, Meno."
"We have still to speak of the mesentery and the omentum; for these are associated with the parts already described and contained in the same cavity."
"The young especially should never be allowed to repeat or hear anything of the sort."
"Why is it that watery wine is more apt to cause vomiting than water and than unmixed wine?"
"They are easily cheated, owing to the sanguine disposition just mentioned."
"We must recognize that cold is in a sense the matter of bodies."
"For 'concave' has a general meaning which is the same in the case of a snub nose, and of a bandy leg, but when added, in the one case to nose, in the other to leg, nothing prevents it from meaning different things; for in the former connexion it means snub and in the latter bandy; and it makes no difference whether you say snub nose or concave nose."
"Of these matters, enough has been said; of what remains, let us speak at another time."
"It is evident then that the learning of music ought not to impede the business of riper years, or to degrade the body or render it unfit for civil or military training, whether for bodily exercises at the time or for later studies."
"But if the universality is posited with respect to the minor term either affirmatively or negatively, a deduction will not be possible, whether the other is affirmative or negative, indefinite or particular:"
"For sores in these parts are sometimes painful and sometimes dangerous after they are cut open."
"(It is possible to acquire error, like knowledge, either by one's own agency or by that of another.)"
"No fish is furnished with testicles, nor any other creature that has gills, nor any serpent"
"For in this noble practice different ages should be separated, and some of the magistrates should stay with the boys, while the grown up men remain with the magistrates; for the presence of the magistrates is the best mode of inspiring true modesty and ingenuous fear."
"Since every sense is active in relation to its object, and a sense which is in good condition acts completely in relation to the most beautiful of its objects (for complete activity seems to be especially of this nature; whether we say that it is active, or the organ in which it resides, may be assumed to be immaterial), it follows that in the case of each sense the best activity is that of the best conditioned Reading tes hedones."
"For 'circle' is used homonymously, meaning both the circle in general and the individual circle, because there is no name proper to the individuals."
"angles to the earth's surface on either side of the point at which they touch the surface?"
"Why is it that in a vapour bath one perspires most freely not when the heat is applied all at once nor when it is gradually diminished, but when it is gradually increased?"
"It is evident, therefore, that nothing continuous is without parts."
"Therefore that which is primarily and is simply (not is something) must be substance."
"And there is another objection to the proposal."
"Now every bubble is smooth and still."
"Hence choice is either desiderative thought or intellectual desire, and such an origin of action is a man."
"His moistness then creates an abundance of semen, while his heat creates a natural condition favourable to it; for the semen must be moist and hot as long as it is kept in the body."
"If names and verbs are transposed they still signify the same thing, eg a man is white white is a man."
"it is one; for if it were two or more, these would be limits for one another."
"We now proceed to marrow; for this is one of the liquids found in certain sanguineous animals."
"The problem why any individual, whether male or female, is sterile is a general one, for some men and women are sterile, and so are other animals in their several kinds, as horses and sheep."
"So too, deliberative orators often make any concession short of admitting that they are recommending their hearers to take an inexpedient course or not to take an expedient one."
"But the husbandmen have no arms, and the artisans neither arms nor land, and therefore they become all but slaves of the warrior class."
"Let us now go on to discuss how many kinds there are of sophistical arguments, and how many in number are the elements of which this faculty is composed, and how many branches there actually are of this inquiry, and the other factors that contribute to this art."
"It is universal in its scope, but has four special departments the coinage, exports, imports, and expenditure."
"Why is it that varicose veins prevent both man and any other animals which suffer from them from procreating?"
"There is a contrast between fishes and birds in the position of these appendages."
"To which we may answer that their character is as good as his."
"The tragic pleasure is that of pity and fear, and the poet has to produce it by a work of imitation; it is clear, therefore, that the causes should be included in the incidents of his story."
"Further, if we are to posit besides the Forms and the sensibles the intermediates between them, we shall have many difficulties."
"There are also some writers on nature who have not dealt in such precise terms with the veins, but who all alike agree in assigning the head and the brain as the starting point of the veins."
"Now if we were to grasp with reference to how many, and what kind of, things arguments take place, and with what materials they start, and how we are to become well supplied with these, we should have sufficiently won our goal."
"From the facts above enumerated it is clear that certain fishes come spontaneously into existence, not being derived from eggs or from copulation."
"And so when these are affected in this way, and when besides the passive and active have the constitution we have many times described, as often as it comes to pass that one is active and the other passive, and neither of them falls short of the elements of its account, straightaway one acts and the other responds."
"Many questions are raised about friendship."
"when the same thing is predicated primitively of several things neither will be in the other)."
"Water comes to be from Air and Air from Water, the Air is the same specifically, not numerically; and if these too recur numerically the same, at any rate this does not happen with things whose substance comes to be whose substance is such that it is capable of not being."
"But the proper number is presumably not a single number, but anything that falls between certain fixed points."
"Of oligarchies, one form is that in which the majority of the citizens have some property, but not very much; and this is the first form, which allows to anyone who obtains the required amount the right of sharing in the government."
"Is it because in an echo refraction takes place, not dispersion?"
"For, as the Pythagoreans say, the universe and all that is in it is determined by the number three, since beginning and middle and end give the number of the universe, and the number they give is the triad."
"The cause of the hairs being long depends on the evaporating moisture not being easily dried."
"We must therefore concentrate all our powers on the discussion of these difficulties and on the solution of a further question viz."
"That it is their water may be seen from the fact that the vapour from them condenses into water when collected."
"For even he who does not resemble his parents is already in a certain sense a monstrosity; for in these cases nature has in a way departed from the type."
"Chance is a cause accidentally among those of events that happen for the sake of something which are in accordance with choice."
"Thus one is always changing into another, and the thing will never be at rest."
"We never see a colour in absolute purity: it is always blent, if not with another colour, then with rays of light or with shadows, and so it assumes a tint other than its own."
"For those who feel shame blush (and nervousness is a kind of shame), whereas those who are afraid turn pale."
"The written style is the more finished: the spoken better admits of dramatic delivery alike"
"We know that heat and moisture are present in these substances; and it is characteristic of moisture to cohere with particles of water, while it is characteristic of heat that it causes things to rise and makes its way towards the particles of air; and it is the habit of water to raise objects to its surface, and of air to rise upwards; and water does not rise above its surface, because the whole surface of the water is one and the same, and consequently the air rises with the oil above the water."
"And with those who do not return a favour, since such a slight is unjustifiable."
"Again, in all classes in which the negation of an attribute means the assertion of its contrary, even in these there will be an intermediate; for instance, in the sphere of numbers there will be number which is neither odd nor not odd."
"One might as well say that it is by the breath that the seeds of plants are always segregated to the places where they are wont to bear fruit."
"Transposing aei to follow epi to poly."
"Thus when we are speaking in support of the existing state of affairs, we must pursue our inquiry by the above or similar methods and treat the question under discussion as the nature of the subject permits."
"be confined to the parts; it concerns the whole universe."
"e.g. horse, man, and dog are one, because all are animals), and in a way similar to that in which the matter is one."
"This explains why we hunt up the series, having started in thought from the present or some other, and from something either similar, or contrary, to what we seek, or else from that which is contiguous with it."
"first to turn grey, and the hair in the front grows grey sooner than the hair at the back; and the hair on the pubes is the last to change colour."
"Why does dough increase more when it has been heated than barleycake does?"
"For the place which is to be occupied by that which is coming to be when it has come to be, must have been previously occupied by void in which no body was."
"Is it because, as it stiffens and hardens with the cold, it becomes difficult to move, and, when this happens, it cannot speak plainly?"
"But when we are descending, the strain is caused by the body falling downwards and thrusting us forward unnaturally, so that we feel the strain most in the part on which it falls most and which it shakes."
"The starting point of our investigation is the question whether the continent man and the incontinent are differentiated by their objects or by their attitude, ie whether the continent man is incontinent simply by being concerned with such and such objects, or, instead, by his attitude, or, instead of that, by both these things; the second question is whether incontinence and continence are concerned with any and every object or not."
"A proof of this is, that the sun presents itself as only a foot in diameter, though often something else gainsays the imagination."
"Many of these form lakes in various places (our sea is an instance of one of these), but all of them come round again in a circle to the source of their flow, many at the same point, but some at a point opposite to that from which they issued; for instance, if they started from the other side of the earth's centre, they might return from this side of it."
"But in one these eyes may be of fluid consistency, while in the other they are hard; and in one there may be eyelids, in the other no such appendages."
"The sexual organ rises at this time, and there is a moisture about the parts."
"Pigeons have the faculty of holding back the egg at the very moment of parturition; if a hen pigeon is put about by anyone, for instance if it be disturbed on its nest, or have a feather plucked out, or sustain any other annoyance or disturbance, then even though she was on the point of laying, she can keep the egg back in abeyance."
"To produce movement the object must be more than this: it must be good that can be brought into being by action; and only what can be otherwise than as it is can thus be brought into being."
"Clearly, therefore, the species partake of the genera, but not the genera of the species; for the species admits the account of the genus, whereas the genus does not admit that of the species."
"Why we cannot think of anything without a continuum or think of non temporal things without time, is another question."
"Nor yet can the terms inhering in what something is be infinitely many; for then it would not be possible to define."
"I will now explain the other terms, beginning with the proofs."
"Similarly and by means of the same terms proof can be made, should be both particular and necessary."
"There is no need, therefore, to prove anything except"
"We shall feel it if we have, or think we have, equals; and by 'equals' I mean equals in birth, relationship, age, disposition, distinction, or wealth."
"Some testaceans there are, that are entirely enveloped in shell and expose no portion of their flesh outside, as the ascidians."
"One might, however, mark off from the rest both the friendship of kindred and that of comrades."
"Again, there have been laws which enjoin the preservation of the original lots."
"But they had overlooked the fact that fish eggs differ from those of birds in one circumstance."
"These passed into tyrannies and tyrannies into democracies; for love of gain in the ruling classes was always tending to diminish their number, and so to strengthen the masses, who in the end set upon their masters and established democracies."
"For as one thing follows another by nature, so too that happens by custom; and frequency creates nature."
"that which is in accordance with practical wisdom."
"If they are kept covered up continuously by the so called 'choker', they are quickly extinguished, but, if the lid is in rapid alternation lifted up and put on again they remain glowing for a long time."
"Both avoidance and appetite when actual are identical with this: the faculty of appetite and avoidance are not different, either from one another or from the faculty of sense perception; but their being is different."
"But it seems to be not for its own sake that people choose honour, but incidentally."
"Why do men generally themselves yawn when they see others yawn?"
"The same argument applies to all, proving that there is no single one of them out of which they all originate."
"If you speak later, you must first, by means of refutation and counter deduction, attempt some answer to your opponent's speech, especially if his arguments have been well received."
"All these are posterior to becoming; consequently, if not even becoming is prior to locomotion, then no one of the other processes of change is so either."
"It is clear therefore that the excretion of garlic is more liable than that of any other such food to reach the bladder with the breath, and this excretion mingling with the urine imparts its odour to it."
"Our views on the subject of atoms are to be found in our treatise on movement."
"Since the definition is a formula, and a formula has parts, we had to consider with respect to the notion of part, what are parts of the substance and what are not, and whether the same things are also parts of the definition."
"This, then, is the end and happiness and the best thing."
"The view which bases the distinction upon differences of size is more like a mere fiction than those previously mentioned, but, in that it is able to make distinctions between the four elements, it is in a stronger position for meeting the foregoing difficulties."
"The bitch of other breeds usually lives for fourteen or fifteen years, but some live to twenty; and for this reason certain critics consider that Homer did well in representing the dog of Odysseus as having died in his twentieth year."
"So that clearly there are four such lengths of rope as in the bed; and there is half the number of holes in the half that there is in the whole."
"A plant which produces its leaves and fruit simultaneously has much moisture, and frequently also contains an oily juice."
"This is why the pouring of hot water over a person makes his hair bristle; for the cold being enclosed within and being compressed causes the hair to stand on end."
"In some twin eggs a thin partition of white intervenes to prevent the yolks mixing with each other, but some twin eggs are unprovided with such partition, and the yolks run into one another."
"If, then, a circle be described with as pole at the distance it will touch all the angles which the lines from and make by their reflection."
"This does not occur in the other objects of sense perception."
"Therefore cold, too, being found in water and earth"
"When we know the fact we seek the reason why (e.g. knowing that it is eclipsed and that the earth moves, we seek the reason why it is eclipsed or why it moves)."
"So men tend especially to turn grey in the region of the temples, and generally speaking in any part which is weak and ailing."
"Moreover they affirm that Jason could not have sailed past the 'Wandering Islands', if he were not sailing away from that quarter."
"Statements and beliefs, on the other hand, themselves remain completely unchangeable in every way; it is because the actual thing changes that the contrary comes to belong to them."
"unless the contraries are found within the same genus: of things whose genera are themselves contraries it may very well be that the same differentia is used of both, eg of justice and injustice; for the one is a virtue and the other a vice of the soul: 'of the soul', therefore, is the differentia in both cases, seeing that the body as well has its virtue and vice."
"For who can be the general of such a vast multitude, or who the herald, unless he have the voice of a Stentor?"
"religious guilds and social clubs; for these exist respectively for the sake of offering sacrifice and of companionship."
"Further it is evident from actual observation that there are things that have the characteristic of moving themselves, eg the animal kingdom and the whole class of living things."
"Very few birds propagate within their first year."
"They do so in order that the vision may proceed forth in a more concentrated form, since it passes through a narrower opening, and that it may not be immediately dispersed by passing out through a wide aperture."
"Are we, then, to speak of the Idea of Good?"
"It can run up and down a tree in Reading epikorrizousi."
"They live underground, their combs they mould out of rubbish and earth,"
"If, on the other hand, the points of the body are the number which is the soul, or if the number of the points in the body is the soul, why have not all bodies souls?"
"For it will not be found in a child (for a child is not happy), but in a man; for he is complete."
"that A belongs to nothing to which belongs here"
"But neither is there friendship towards a horse or an ox, nor to a slave qua slave."
"It is plain then that, in the science which inquires into nature, there must be certain canons, by reference to which a hearer shall be able to criticize the method of a professed exposition, quite independently of the question whether the statements made be true or false."
"At any rate the evidence of all other cases goes to show that it is the unnatural which quickest passes away."
"For birds and scaly reptiles because of their heat produce a perfect egg, but because of their dryness it is only an egg; the Selachia have less heat than these but more moisture, so that they are intermediate, for they are both oviparous and viviparous within themselves, the former because they are cold,"
"Those who think they feel thus towards each other think themselves friends."
"and they belong in the account which says what they are)"
"There are, however, different kinds of water, and water only rises if it is fresh, and salt water is heavier than fresh; and so that which rises above water is rarer than water."
"This class of objects has no simple common name, but instances of it are fungi, horns, heads, scales, and eyes of fish."
"Children are very commonly subject to convulsions, more especially such of them as are more than ordinarily well nourished on rich or unusually plentiful milk from a stout nurse."
"But things which are of the nature of matter or of wholes which include matter, are not the same as their essences, nor are accidental unities like that of Socrates and musical; for these are the same only by accident."
"Now the body is moved by locomotion."
"Rather that movement caused the pre existent heavy and light things to go to the middle and stay on the surface respectively."
"And surely there may be a city happy in isolation, which we will assume to be well governed (for it is quite possible that a city thus isolated might be well administered and have good laws); but such a city would not be constituted with any view to war or the conquest of enemies all that sort of thing must be excluded."
"If a hunter hit him, without hurting him, then if with a bound"
"For anger is productive of heat; and solids, when they have been made hot, give off more heat than fluids."
"Such, then, is the way in which those who are employing dissuasion on their own account must arrange their speech."
"No, not even when it is aware of such an object does it thereby enjoin pursuit or avoidance of it; eg the mind often thinks of something terrifying or pleasant without enjoining the emotion of fear."
"Also just as answerers, too, often, when they are in process of being refuted draw a distinction, if their refutation is just about to take place, so questioners also should resort to this from time to time to counter objectors, pointing out, supposing that against one sense of the words the objection holds, but not against the other, that they have taken it in the latter sense, as eg Cleophon does in the Mandrobulus."
"(Even among the brutes we find such friendship; at least they choose to die for their children.)"
"And we can carry on this process for ever, taking the slower after the quicker and the quicker after the slower, and using what has been demonstrated; for the quicker will divide the time and the slower will divide the length."
"We have now mentioned the parts of which individual plants consist."
"If it were not like this our perception of the common qualities would always be incidental, ie as is the perception of Cleon's son, where we perceive him not as Cleon's son but as white, and the white thing happens to be Cleon's son."
"Everything which is concluded probatively can be proved per impossibile, and that which is proved per impossibile can be proved probatively, through the same terms."
"After parturition comes copious menstruation, not at first much tinged with blood, but deeply dyed with it by and by."
"But this also is refuted in the same way; for the matter which is one is contrary to nothing."
"And, whereas no other animal is known to shed its horns, the deer sheds its horns annually, unless it has been castrated; and with regard to the effects of castration in animals we shall speak hereafter."
"Now the earth would appear to us to be the centre of the universe, if we could view it from the heavenly bodies."
"is not single in meaning: sometimes it means the man who is sick now, sometimes the man who was sick formerly."
"For only a great soul can live in the midst of trouble and wrong without itself committing any base act."
", it seems, that in order to be good one must be in a certain state when one does the several acts, ie one must do them as a result of choice and for the sake of the acts themselves."
"So likewise nature always produces inferior specimens and in a greater number, and superior specimens in a smaller number and in some cases not at all."
"eg thedomestic hen pursues the cock and squats beneath him if he is not excited."
"That which is the first mover of a thing in the sense that it supplies not that for the sake of which"
"If there is any kind of animal which is female and has no male separate from it, it is possible that this may generate a young one from itself."
"(For we have not yet made it clear from the distinctions drawn hitherto whether it is the matter of the semen that is the cause of generation, or whether it has in it some faculty and efficient cause thereof)."
"But as every pair of contraries falls to be examined by one and the same science, and in each pair one term is the privation of the other (though one might regarding some contraries raise the question, how they can be privatively related, viz."
"The fact that the bear hides is well established, but there are doubts as to whether it does so by reason of the cold or from some other cause."
"So that, though such persons are growing cold, the emission of semen is due not to cooling but to the simultaneous heating."
"All animals that have blood have a head; whereas in some bloodless animals, such as crabs, the part which represents a head is not clearly defined."
"For we see with our eyes, as we said before, that earthy things sink to the bottom of all things and move towards the centre."
"And for this reason it is called the great finger, though it is small, because the others are pretty well useless without it."
"thinking or perception or local movement and rest, or movement in the sense of nutrition, decay and growth."
"The last of these points to a sub division that may be made in the class of homogeneous parts."
"Outrage occurs when in providing pleasure for oneself one brings shame on others, whence"
"But if the purpose is to establish not a universal but a particular proposition, they must look for the terms which each follows; for if any of these are identical, the attribute must belong to some of the subject."
"The bee gathers from every flower that is furnished with a calyx, and from all other flowers that are sweet tasted, without doing injury to any fruit; and the juices of the flowers it takes up with the organ that resembles a tongue and carries off to the hive."
"For some purposes softness is advantageous, for others hardness; some parts must be capable of extension, others of flexion."
"a refutation, too, will start from propositions."
"We answer that in some cases the knowledge is the object."
"But sweet smelling seeds contain heat, because odour is in general engendered by heat; while evil smelling things are unconcocted."
"Hence also most of them are self indulgent; for they spend lightly and waste money on their indulgences, and incline towards pleasures because they do not live with a view to what is noble."
"There is much change, I mean, in the stars which are overhead, and the stars seen are different, as one moves northward or southward."
"The same terms will serve for the proof."
"Therefore nothing finite can possess an infinite force."
"For it is absurd if of every subject its own negation is to be predicable, while the negation of something else which cannot be predicated of it is not predicable of it; for instance, if it is true to say of a man that he is not a man, evidently it is also true to say that he is either a trireme or not a trireme."
"Another line is, when a contemplated action is inconsistent with any past action, to examine them both together."
"We shall arrange the proems of forensic speeches in the same manner as those of public orations, and on the same principle we shall include the narration of facts in the proem or show them to be trustworthy and just in detail"
"everything seems to revolve in a circle, and as soon as the wine takes hold of them they cannot count objects at a distance, and so this is used by some as a test of drunkenness?"
"those which some call milk shells, while others are rough shelled, such as the pool oyster, the pinna, and certain species of clam, and the trumpet shells; and of these some are ribbed, such as the scallop and a certain kind of clam, and some are devoid of ribs, as the pinna and another species of clam."
"this organ is hard, and indeed it is hard in most insects."
"Again, what belongs to no will not belong to every A; for if to, then to too"
"But Socrates did not make the universals or the definitions exist apart; his successors, however, gave them separate existence, and this was the kind of thing they called Ideas."
"Why is it that the young of all other animals resemble their parents in nature more closely than do those of man?"
"Now Caecias, blowing from above to a contrary direction, describes in its course a line which follows an upward curve in relation to the earth; and falling, as has been said, upon the western regions of the earth and massing the clouds together as a result of the form of line which it follows, on its return it thrusts the clouds before it towards itself."
"That is good the contrary of which is to the advantage of our enemies; for example, if it is to the particular advantage of our enemies that we should be cowards, clearly courage is of particular value to our countrymen."
"There are limits to their number Friend, you have spoken as much as a sensible man would have spok '"
"Those which are planted are separated either from the root, the stem, the branches, or the seed, or else"
"and on which the other things depend, and in virtue of which they get their names."
"The explanation of the difficulty appears to be that things are called hotter in several ways; for each appears to have something to say, although they are at odds with one another."
"The accompaniments of small mindedness are pettiness, grumbling, hopelessness, self humiliation."
"Also, when the sun and the moon, they say, and all the stars, so great in number and in size, are moving with so rapid a motion, how should they not produce a sound immensely great?"
"If then he had asked to begin with, whether a man no longer having the number of things he once had has lost that number, no one would have granted it, but would have said 'Either that number or some of them'."
"This is the way they put it themselves, but their account requires an addition."
"That from which (not as an immanent part) a thing first arises, and from which the movement or the change naturally first proceeds, as a child comes from the father and the mother, and a fight from abusive language."
"For example, Homer is something (say, a poet)."
"Such officers are called by various names Scrutineers, Auditors, Accountants, Controllers."
"To determine this is indispensable but difficult."
"Broiling is concoction by dry foreign heat."
"They do not give birth to their young ones all together at one time, but bring them forth at intervals over as many days as it may happen to be."
"And whatsoever is in conformity with nature is pleasant, and all animals pursue pleasure in keeping with their nature."
"According to their view, the council of Areopagus was an oligarchical element, the elected magistracy, aristocratic, and the courts of law, democratic."
"If the lips of the orifice be smooth conception is difficult, for the matter slips off; and if they be thick it is also difficult."
"Similarly in the third figure."
"And it is coming about because it is coming to be there; and it will be because it will be in the middle; and it is because it is."
"The elements of bodies must therefore be subject to destruction and generation."
"For the loss of both characters takes place at once, and the change is into the two opposites; now female is opposed to male, and mother to father."
"But we must consider the things towards which we ourselves also are easily Odyssey."
"The hind feet are also furnished with five toes, and in their flexions and nails they resemble the front feet; but in shape they resemble a fish's tail."
"whence it clearly follows that to every body there will correspond a void of equal bulk."
"as we said before, a cause of destruction rather than of coming into being (for change, in itself, makes things depart from their former condition), and only accidentally of coming into being, and of being."
", for all of them have a number of superfluous stems growing from their roots."
"Mere legislators were Zaleucus, who gave laws to the Epizephyrian Locrians, and Charondas, who legislated for his own city of Catana, and for the other Chalcidian cities in Italy and Sicily."
"When the harvest time came, and many were wanted all at once and of a sudden"
"The reason is that, as men change according to their age, so the same thing happens to them according to the season; for this makes a greater difference to them than the change of age."
"His victims may be far off or near at hand."
"If either of the two is infinite, the other must be so too; for all locomotion is in place."
"From Empedocles at any rate we might demand an answer to the following question for he says that each of the parts of the body is what it is in virtue of a ratio between the elements: is the soul identical with this ratio, or is it not rather something over and above this which is formed in the parts?"
"Now knowing what is good for oneself will be one kind of knowledge, but is very different from the other kinds; and the man who knows and concerns himself with his own interests is thought to have practical wisdom, while politicians are thought to be busybodies;"
"Again, he was the first to speak of four material elements; yet he does not use four, but treats them as two only; he treats fire by itself, and its opposites earth, air, and water as one kind of thing."
"The physicists on the other hand have two modes of explanation."
"As we have said, not all bodies can by impact on one another produce sound; impact on wool makes no sound, while the impact on bronze or any body which is smooth and hollow does."
"Light or darkness, sounds and smells leave bodies quite unaffected; what does affect bodies is not these but the bodies which are their vehicles,"
"For a prescription and a knife are called medical because the former proceeds from medical science, and the latter is useful to it."
"First, then, we must speak of the methods of overthrowing a view universally, because such are common to both universal and particular problems, and because people more usually introduce theses asserting a predicate than denying it, while those who argue with them overthrow it."
"Happiness extends, then, just so far as contemplation does, and those to whom contemplation more fully belongs are more truly happy, not accidentally, but in virtue of the contemplation; for this is in itself precious."
"For the ancient Hellenes went about armed and bought their brides from each other."
"Xenophanes states that the fire in Lipara once failed for sixteen years, but returned in the seventeenth year."
"But Protagoras says man is the measure of all things, meaning really the man who knows or the man who perceives, and these because they have respectively knowledge and perception, which we say are the measures of objects."
"This is best seen in black fruits; for broadly speaking most of them, as has already been remarked, first change from herb green to a pinkish shade and become reddish, but quickly change again from the reddish hue and become dark blue because of the pure black present in them."
"Thus it is clear that the cognition of these objects is effected by the primary faculty of perception, and memory even of intellectual objects involves an image and the image is an affection of the common sense."
"It is, however, manifest that no portion of air whatever moves downward."
"But if is predicated of every and, there will not be a deduction."
"Besides this, the differentiae are principles even more than the genera; and if these also are principles, there comes to be practically an infinite number of principles, especially if we suppose the highest genus to be a principle."
"Here too we have to remember the general principle that what we fear for ourselves excites our pity when it happens to others."
"Some insects are wingless, such as the iulus and the centipede; some are winged, as the bee, the cockchafer, and the wasp; and the same genus is in some cases both winged and wingless, as the ant and the glow worm."
"it is a beginning, so that it stands in these same relations to the motions."
"For example, one is prior to two because if there are two it follows at once that there is one whereas if there is one there are not necessarily two, so that the implication of the other's existence does not hold reciprocally from one; and"
"Or see if, whenever a term happens to be used in a number of relations, he has failed to introduce it in its primary relation: eg by defining prudence as the virtue of man or of the soul, rather than of the reasoning faculty; for prudence is the virtue primarily of the reasoning faculty; for it is in virtue of this that both the man and his soul are said to be prudent."
"It is possible then for to belong either to every or to no."
"Hence there arises much dispute about the continent and incontinent, for each of them acts with two tendencies mutually opposed, so that (as the expression goes) the continent forcibly drags himself from the pleasant appetites (for he feels pain in dragging himself away against the resistance of desire), while the incontinent forcibly drags himself contrary to his reason."
"That if one of two things whose existence depends on each other is possible, so is the other; for instance, if double, then half, and if half, then double."
"We have, however, to inquire whether necessity may not also have a share in the matter; and it must be admitted that these mutual relations could not from the very beginning have possibly been other than they are."
"There is also the situation that arises when an oath has already been sworn either by himself or by his opponent."
"For if that which is moved surpasses the strength of that which moves it, what is moved must go slowly; if the opposite, quickly."
"As I was saying before, men agree that justice in the abstract is proportion, but they differ in"
"But after a time of prosperity, whether arising from peace or some other good fortune, the same property becomes many times as valuable, and then everybody participates in every office; this happens sometimes gradually and insensibly, and sometimes quickly."
"For, in all animals that have a head, it is this head which more than any other part requires to be held up."
"Hence food is essentially related to what has soul in it."
"Or if both characters belong in a particular respect, then, they say, contrary attributes belong at the same time."
"These latter kinds of birds fly with their feet tucked up close to the belly; but the smallrumped birds fly with their legs stretched out at full length."
"The law about the Spartan admirals has often been censured, and with justice; it is a source of dissension, for the kings are perpetual generals, and this office of admiral is but the setting up of another king."
"They are also curved, because they are almost the only weapons which fishes possess."
"For let A be something that is the case; and if this is the case, then these are the case (things which I know to be the case, call them B)."
"We find analogous phenomena occurring in the sea."
"Even this is possible only in an accidental sense."
"The hair differs in the way of thickness and fineness, and of length, according to the locality of the part in which it is found, and according to the quality of skin on which it grows."
"Is it because it makes the eye dry, as it does the rest of the body?"
"Moreover, if harmony is the genus of temperance, then the same object will occur in two genera of which neither contains the other; for harmony does not contain virtue, nor virtue harmony."
"Plurality is contrary neither to the few (the many being contrary to this as excessive plurality to plurality exceeded), nor to the one in every sense; but in one sense they are contrary, as has been said, because the former is divisible and the latter indivisible, while in another sense they are relative (as knowledge is to the knowable), if plurality is number and the one is measure."
"But it seems to lie in loving rather than in being loved, as is indicated by the delight mothers take in loving; for some mothers hand over their children to be brought up, and so long as they know their fate they love them and do not seek to be loved in return (if they cannot have both), but seem to be satisfied if they see them prospering; and they themselves love their children even if these owing to their ignorance give them nothing of a mother's due."
"Others, perhaps intentionally, maintain precisely the contrary opinion to this."
"The reason has not been rightly given by Empedocles and Democritus, of whom the former expresses himself obscurely, the latter more intelligibly."
"But if the parts are infinite and simple, their places also are infinite and the elements will be infinite; and if this is impossible, and the places are finite, the universe also must be limited."
"We will take the former first, and treat of milk afterwards."
"And we have said how this must be done."
"When lice are coming there is a kind of small eruption visible, unaccompanied by any discharge of purulent matter; and if you prick these the lice jump out."
"These are birds that are frugivorous and live on the ground, or that are able to swim and get their living in watery places."
"Yes, but now also we assert this just the same, that the activity is better than the state."
"The simple bodies are indeed similar in nature to them, but not identical with them."
"Further, if there be a movement natural to the soul, there must be a countermovement unnatural to it, and conversely."
"For of exhaustion that kind which is destruction due to lack of refrigeration is called suffocation, and whatsoever is thus destroyed is said to be suffocated."
"first very small and white."
"intermediate,.g., between Air and Water (coarser than Air, but finer than Water), or between Air and Fire (coarser than Fire, but finer than Air)."
"For the genera of the things there are are different, and some predicates belong to quantities and some to qualities alone, with the help of which proofs are conducted through the common items."
"Another is common to forensic and deliberative oratory, namely, to consider inducements and deterrents, and the motives people have for doing or avoiding the actions in question."
"But if this were not to take place, either there would These lines are bracketed by editors as a later addition."
"It remains then that it must be because it is somehow better so."
"Now they are necessary, it is true, but yet they are for a final cause and for the sake of what is best in each case."
"In that case the Form will be empty."
"Instances have been known of men and women that have never dreamed at all; in cases of this kind, it has been observed that when a dream occurs in advanced life it is followed by bodily change leading to death for some and to debility for others."
"Further, we must not only show which of these governments is the best for each state, but also briefly proceed to consider how these and other forms of government are to be established."
"That explains why pigeons' necks and drops of falling water look lustrous when light is reflected from them."
"Such in general are the beginnings and causes of the disturbances and revolutions to which every form of government is liable."
"There is also the civic disposition, such as the Laconians have, and others like them might have; its nature would be something like this there are some who think one should have excellence but Reading outoi for outos."
"in them the inward region is cooled so that the quantity of exhalation in their case is not great."
"To the thinking soul images serve as if they were contents of perception (and when it asserts or denies them to be good or bad it avoids or pursues them)."
"If the soul is in this condition, it is only natural that the tongue should suffer likewise; for the soul is the source of speech."
"For example, in democracies the people are supreme, but in oligarchies, the few; and, therefore, we say that these two constitutions also are different: and so in other cases."
"Wombs of that sort, being very sl take a long time."
"But in the case of pleasure it is not so."
"Then each will be either immovable or always being carried along."
"Why does man sneeze most of all animals?"
"So too flying and swimming things progress, the one straightening and bending their wings to fly, the other their fins to swim."
"From this part of the world originally came the institution of common tables; the separation into castes from Egypt, for the reign of Sesostris is of far greater antiquity than that of Minos."
"Again, wish relates rather to the end, choice to what contributes to the end; for instance, we wish to be healthy, but we choose the acts which will make us healthy, and we wish to be happy and say we do, but we cannot well say we choose to be so; for, in general, choice seems to relate to the things that are in our own power."
"For the thigh is nearer than the leg to the source of the veins."
"For this reason then increased perspiration is not induced as the result of greater heat; but because to each increment of heat there answers a different proportion, and that which has already produced its effect produces no greater effect, increased perspiration is rather the result of successive additions of heat."
"But when this has been shown it is clear that every deduction is perfected by means of the first figure and is reducible to the universal deductions in this figure."
"It is evident, then, that there is no primary time in which it has changed; for the divisions are infinite."
"The animal soon succumbs, and when the carcase is opened the lungs are found to be rotten."
"For it cannot exist separately, but is always along with the compound thing; and by the compound thing"
"Moreover, the rapidity of its digestion is contrary to reason; for the exhalation follows immediately on the inhalation."
"For since each part is formed of blood, each must have blood all about it."
"As to what god is to contemplate, then, we may let that pass."
"And the nostril admits of easy motion, and is not, like the ear, intrinsically immovable."
"(This we demonstrated above in the discussion of movement.)"
"For why does not the female generate from herself if the semen comes from all parts alike"
"Accordingly, the upper parts are superior in these respects to the lower, the male superior to the female, and the right side to the left."
"The example of the people of Tarentum is also well deserving of imitation, for, by sharing the use of their own property with the poor, they gain their good will."
"For the bulk of the earth (which includes the whole volume of water) is infinitesimal in comparison with the whole world that surrounds it."
"Not that a life of action must necessarily have relation to others, as some persons think, nor are those ideas only to be regarded as practical which are pursued for the sake of practical results, but much more the thoughts and contemplations which are independent and complete in themselves; since acting well, and therefore a certain kind of action, is an end, and even in the case of external actions"
"But then indeed Upon the air's escape runs in the water meet."
"For if one could over come by power of motion the immobility of the earth he would clearly move it away from the centre."
"Nor are there contained within it those hard (i.e. congealed) particles indivisible in their bulk; on the contrary, it is liquid and again, solid and congealed uniformly all through."
"He certainly thinks that the women ought to share in the education of the guardians, and to fight by their side."
"See Physics I. Things are not called heavy and light because they act upon, or suffer action from, other things."
"It is said that at Coronea in Boeotia moles cannot live, or dig up the ground, while the rest of Boeotia possesses a large number of them."
"Yet to put it in this way is to seek for the cause from too remote a starting point; we must draw near the primary causes in so far as it is possible for us."
"If he understands the question and yet it covers many senses, then supposing what it says to be universally true or false, he should give it an unqualified assent or denial; if, on the other hand, it is partly true and partly false, he should add a comment that it bears different senses, and that in one it is true, in the other false; for if he leaves this distinction till later, it becomes uncertain whether originally he perceived the ambiguity."
"The males have fine spermatic ducts, the females a membranous uterus alongside the intestine, cloven on each side, in which the egg is produced."
"Now in its own place every body endowed with both weight and lightness has weight whereas earth has weight everywhere"
"The latter argument no doubt was a deduction; but the former was an hypothesis."
"Or is there no reason why one thing should not have come to be out of another, and so on in an endless series?"
"In sanguineous animals blood is the most universal and the most indispensable part; and it is not an acquired part, but it belongs to all animals that are not moribund."
"the clouds and the ether."
"Now after rain winds usually blow."
"If, then, it is equally impossible not to put the good among first principles and to put it among them in this way, evidently the principles are not being correctly described, nor are the first substances."
"If, therefore, the universe has not come to be, it has no first beginning, and is therefore infinite."
"So then the eyes of animals are perfected late because of the amount of concoction required by the brain, and last of all the parts because the motion must be very strong before it can affect parts so far from the first principle of motion and so cold."
"And therefore we shall also get wise action arising out of ignorance."
"The story should never be made up of improbable incidents; there should be nothing of that sort in it."
"Such, then, are the ways in which prejudices in reference to the present are likely to be created against a public speaker."
"The mare lives usually for twenty five years, though instances have occurred of their attaining the age of forty."
"Take the line: Earth loves the shower, what time the plain is dry."
"Now the sequence is direct in a case such as that of courage and cowardice; for upon the one of them virtue follows, and vice upon the other; and upon the one it follows that it is desirable, while upon the other it follows that it is objectionable."
"It is clear then that there are causes, and that the number of them is what we have stated."
"And even now there are magistrates, for example judges, who have authority to decide some matters which the law is unable to determine, since no one doubts that the law would command and decide in the best manner whatever it could."
"That his temperament was atrabilious is shown by the fury which he displayed towards his children and the eruption of sores which took place before his disappearance on Mount Oeta; for this often occurs as the result of black bile."
"so we must go on to try to explain why the sea is salt."
"For an attribute that belongs to something qualified by an accident will also belong to the accident taken along with the subject which it qualifies; eg an attribute that belongs to man will belong also to white man, if there is a white man, and one that belongs to white man will belong also to man."
"In what city shall we find a hundred persons of good birth and of excellence?"
"On the outer surface of the mytis runs the intestine; and in contact with this latter is placed the ink bag, so that it may be removed as far as possible from the mouth and its obnoxious fluid be kept at a distance from the nobler and sovereign part."
"A further problem is set by such questions as, whether one should in all things give the preference to one's father and obey him, or whether when one is ill"
"Hence all rivers and all the water that is generated flow into it; for water flows into the deepest place, and the deepest part of the earth is filled by the sea."
"They say also that in Pithecusae the ground is fiery, and extraordinarily hot, yet not burning."
"For if A belongs to every, and to, A belongs to every C; but A was supposed originally to belong to no."
"They run across a stream a dam composed of rushwood and stones, leaving a small open space, and in this space they insert a weel in which they catch them when they have removed the stones."
"The deliberative orator is concerned with the future: it is about things to be done hereafter that he advises, for or against."
"So they blow intermittently till the true etesians come on again at the summer solstice; for from that time onwards the wind has an especial tendency to blow continuously.)"
"The amount of this discharge, when it occurs, is sometimes on a different scale from the emission of semen and far exceeds it."
"The number of the latter is a proof of the greatness of a city; but a city which produces numerous artisans and comparatively few soldiers cannot be great, for a great city is not the same as a populous one."
"But if the genus as a whole has two properties, eg if the lion is both brave and generous"
"Thus by universal knowledge he knows that contains two right angles, but not by particular; consequently his knowledge will not be contrary to his ignorance."
"eg if A belongs or does not belong to some, and belongs to every."
"It is not true to say that what is not, since it is thought about, is something that is; for what is thought about it is not that it is, but that it is not."
"In most cases the menstrual discharge recurs for some time after conception has taken place, its duration being mostly thirty days in the case of a female and about forty days in the case of a male child."
"Under this head we might raise the question whether such creatures can truly be called non respiratory pointing to this argument and also to the way in which they take in nutriment; for we should say that they must draw in some breath at the same time; and we should further urge that they must respire for the sake of refrigeration, which they must require just as other creatures do."
"Again, that which exists for the sake of the end admits of division into two classes, first the origin of the movement, and then that which is used by the end; I mean, for instance, that which can generate, and that which serves as an instrument to what is generated, for the one of these, that which makes, must exist first, as the teacher before the learner, and the other later, as the pipes are later than he who learns to play upon them, for it is superfluous that men who do not know how to play should have pipes."
"Even the more recent of the ancient thinkers were in a pother lest the same thing should turn out in their hands both one and many."
"A hedgehog, while roaming around, noticed the fox; and feeling sorry for her"
"Some say that what originates movement is both pre eminently and primarily soul"
"Put such remarks, therefore, into the mouth of some third person."
"Indeed, the source of this warmth must be in the heart in sanguineous animals, and in the case of bloodless animals in the corresponding organ, for, though all parts of the body by means of their natural heat work upon and concoct the nutriment, the governing organ takes the chief share in this process."
"For if the government is unjust everyone in the country unites with the governed in the desire to have a revolution, and it is an impossibility that the members of the government can be so numerous as to be stronger than all their enemies put together."
"If then it is assumed that belongs to every, and to every, both the propositions assumed have been demonstrated, and must belong to."
"There is no need then of a soul in each part, but it resides in a kind of origin of the body, and the remaining parts live by being naturally connected, and play their parts because of their nature."
"This is placed in front of the brain; for otherwise it would have cut off the brain from the spine."
"It may accidentally, as for instance when we say that something musical walks, that which walks being something in which aptitude for music is an accident."
"that many things could both be and also appear to us; and since these ways are impossible, that which is cannot be many, and the belief that it is is erroneous, like many other fancies which are due to the senses; but argument does not prove either that things come into being or that what is, is many, but that it is one and eternal and unlimited and similar throughout."
"Or as eye, hand, foot, and in general each of the parts evidently has a function, may one lay it down"
"That those things are possible of which the love or desire is natural; for no one, as a rule, loves or desires impossibilities."
"And what is not is not white; either, then, for this reason everything that is is white (this is in order that we may not assign an identical quality to that which exists and to the nonexistent), or else, I think, there is nothing to prevent anything which exists from being not white."
"Thus iron, stone, water and all liquids are incapable of being squeezed."
"For wherever there is the most fluid and the most heat, there also must necessarily occur the greatest outgrowth."
"Now a deduction is an argument in which, certain things being laid down, something other than these necessarily comes about through them."
"Its under feet, up to the big feet, are eight in number; then come the big feet, far larger and flatter at the tips than the same organs in the crayfish; and these are irregular: the right claw has the extreme flat surface long and thin, while the left claw has the corresponding surface thick and round."
"Hence we must inquire first what nature is: for thus we shall also see what natural science treats of and whether it belongs to one science or to more to investigate the causes and the principles of things."
"There are four main genera, viz."
"The middle band and the third go on the same principle."
"He who is making an inquiry must try to discover whether either the statement which he is examining or the acts or choices of the subject of his inquiry are in any respect contradictory to one another."
"; for it is these which are the moulding forces, while the one underlies them as matter."
"Thus, in one word, states arise out of like activities."
"But rhetorical persuasion is effected not only by demonstrative but by ethical argument; it helps a speaker to convince us, if we believe that he has certain qualities himself, namely, goodness, or goodwill towards us, or both together."
", actuality and potency; but these also are not only different for different things but also apply in different senses to them."
"The following makes the necessity of a medium clear."
"For it is in this way that a father is called father of his son; for the one has acted, and the other has been acted on in a certain way."
"There is superfluity whenever a man possesses the necessities of life and sets to work to secure as well other noble acquisitions."
"Thus we have explained that all bodies are composed of all the simple bodies."
"If, therefore, the eye is moved upwards, the terminus of the vision is lowered; if downwards, it is raised."
"For a solid is divisible at a plane, and a plane is divisible at a line."
"But, if any one approaches them with violence, they discharge, it appears, from the mouth a very great quantity of phlegm, which the animal blows upon the faces of the dogs, and of the men as well, so as to choke and blind them."
"To this question we shall give the same answer as we gave above."
"If sometimes she becomes stronger, and her womb is dry and then grows moist, that is a sign that her body as a whole is receiving and absorbing, and that it is not the womb only but the body too which is strong."
"Let us try the primary body first, and then go on to consider the others."
"So that, if he has fortified himself beforehand with a thought of this kind, he whose incontinence is due to the suddenness of the impression will not be affected at all, nor do anything wrong."
"Now the moister anything is the hotter"
"It creates breath in the particular region to which it is carried; hence those who are frightened fart."
"Can it be, then, that good fortune is a sort of care of the gods?"
"(that all sensible things are ever in a state of flux and there is no knowledge about them), these views he held even in later years."
"I Holding as we do that"
"Moreover, the self same viscera present differences in different possessors."
"The etesian winds veer round, for dwellers in the west from Aparatias to Thrascias, Argestes, and Zephyrus, beginning from the north and ending far away; for dwellers in the east they veer round as far as Apeliotes."
"He differs under different forms of government, but in the best state he is one who is able and chooses to be governed and to govern with a view to the life of excellence."
"Something like this is the case with the man who cannot control his anger."
"And if more than one, how many are there and what are the bounds of their regions?"
"These differ, however, from each other in that the former imagines a cycle of such changes, the latter a single series."
"And, in general, both that (Z) from which they are produced is nature, and the type according to which they are produced is nature (for that which is produced, eg a plant or an animal, has a nature), and so is that by which they are produced the so called 'formal' nature, which is specifically the same as the nature of the thing produced (though it is in another individual); for man begets man."
"This is in the first place the result of necessity, because the kidneys are the parts through which the residual matters percolate."
"But, again, it is not possible that such entities should exist separately."
"The so called fox shark, when it finds it has swallowed the hook, tries to get rid of it as the scolopendra does: it runs up the fishing line, and bites it off short; it is caught in some districts in deep and rapid waters, with night lines."
"But until one has oneself stated in what cases it is so, it is not fair to demand that he shall say in what cases it is not so; for one should make the induction first, and then demand the objection."
"Let us next similarly define the kinds of oratory employed in accusation and defence and the elements of which they are composed and the uses to which they are to be put."
"The breadth of the fire that blazes up amounts to forty stadia, while the height to which it is carried amounts to three."
"For constructive purposes, on the other hand, see if the contrary is the property of the contrary; for then also the contrary of the first will be a property of the contrary of the second."
"In a word, both snow and hail and rain and all such processes of cleansing are a sign of concoction; therefore after rain and similar storms the winds fall."
"For he sings with him; and every one enjoys singing when he is under no compulsion to sing."
"The penis is gristly and sinewy."
"neither the organ itself nor its passages either for hearing or for smelling; but all fishes are furnished with eyes, and the eyes devoid of lids, though the eyes are not hard."
"Magnificence, then, since it is praiseworthy, is a mean between defect and excess with regard to proper expenses on the right occasions."
"We reply that if each man is somehow responsible for the state he is in, he will also be himself somehow responsible for how things appear; but if not, no one is responsible for his own evildoing, but everyone does evil acts through ignorance of the end, thinking that by these he will get what is best, and the aiming at the end is not self chosen but one must be born with an eye, as it were, by which to judge rightly and choose what is truly good, and he is well endowed by nature who is well endowed with this."
"Now so far as the selection of his ground is concerned the problem is one alike for the philosopher and the dialectician; but how to go on to arrange his points and frame his questions concerns the dialectician only; for in every problem of that kind a reference to another party is involved."
"In negative deductions reciprocal proof is as follows."
"Or do we only imagine that it is colder because then the food within us is concocted and, the stomach being emptier, we are more liable to feel the cold?"
"Is it because chaff is both hot and absorbent?"
"Of relative terms, those which are not contrary have no intermediate."
"If the end is to exist or does exist, that also which precedes it will exist or does exist; otherwise just as there, if the conclusion is not true, the principle will not be true, so"
"only for the sake of the natural goods, and so such men are good (for the natural goods are good for them), but they have not nobility and goodness."
"Hence the place of a thing is the innermost motionless boundary of what contains it."
"We are more likely to be right, in the game of 'odd and even', if we simply guess 'even' or 'odd' than if we guess at the actual number; and the oracle monger is more likely to be right if he simply says that a thing will happen than if he says when it will happen, and therefore he refuses to add a definite date."
"Moreover, as sameness is a term used in many ways, see whether things that are the same in one way are the same also in a different way."
"These are supposed to be of some service in controversy."
"Is it thus also with an object seen, and with light?"
"It is absurd, because it is unreasonable that one element alone should have no part in the transformations, and also contrary to the observed data of sense, according to which all alike change into one another."
"The mover on the other hand is already in actuality: eg it is that which is hot that produces heat, and in general that which produces the form possesses it."
"Of aquatic red blooded animals, fishes possess the organ of taste, namely the tongue, but it is in an imperfect form, in other words it is osseous and undetached."
"The causes of sterility in other animals are several."
"If therefore one is to act successfully in affairs of state, one must be of a good character."
"Moreover, in the case of appetitions, and in any other cases where it applies, see if the word 'apparent' is left out: eg wishing is an appetition after the good, or desire is an appetition after the pleasant instead of the apparently good or pleasant."
"Further, all wickedness makes one more unjust, and incontinence seems to be wickedness, the incontinent being the sort of man that acts in accordance with his appetite and contrary to his reason, and shows his incontinence when he acts in accordance with his appetite; but to act unjustly is voluntary, so that the incontinent will act unjustly by acting according to his appetite; he will then act voluntarily, and what is done according to appetite is voluntary."
"For if you did not know if it is simpliciter, how did you know that it has two right angles simpliciter?"
"In another variety of democracy the citizens form one assembly, but meet only to elect magistrates, to pass laws, to advise about war and peace, and to make scrutinies."
"Birds that do not fly but keep on the ground take the dust bath, as for instance the hen, the partridge, the francolin, the lark, the Retaining ou. pheasant; some of the straight taloned birds, such as live on the banks of a river, in marshes, or by the sea, take a water bath; some birds take both the dust bath and the water bath, as for instance the pigeon and the sparrow; of the crookedtaloned birds the greater part take neither."
"With regard to those which draw one into repeating the same thing a number of times, it is clear that one must not grant that predications of relative terms have any meaning in abstraction by themselves, eg double apart from double of half, merely on the ground that it figures in it."
"Again, readiness of mind is different from excellence in deliberation; it is a sort of skill in conjecture."
"Clearly then the conclusion cannot be negative and simple, if the relation must be positive when the terms are related as above."
"Again, apart from this mistake, the great and the small, and the like, must be relative to something; but the relative is least of all things a real thing or substance, and is posterior to quality and quantity; and the relatives are accidents of quantity, as was said, but not its matter, since there is something else both for relative in general and for its parts and kinds."
"As to the criticisms relating to the poet's art itself."
", it is evident that deductions per impossibile also will be made through these figures."
"For the co ordinate members of a division that are derived from the same genus are simultaneous by nature, and odd and even are such terms; for both are differentiae of number."
"Such, too, is the nature of the radius which describes a circle."
"are differences of magnitude, and of the greater or smaller development of parts."
"Now the things in which this motion is produced are things that admit of being sometimes in motion and sometimes at rest, and the motion is not continuous but only appears so; for it is motion of things that are either successive or in contact, there being not one mover but a number consecutive with one another."
"In the Maeander, a river of Asia, they say that a stone is found, called by contradiction 'sound minded'; for if one throws it into any one's bosom he becomes mad, and kills some one of his relations."
"This is because hurricanes are generally formed when some winds are blowing and others fall on them; and these are the winds which are most apt to fall on others that are blowing; the reason for which, too, we have explained before."
"So that it is plain also in the case of excellence, since it is the best mode of causation, that it aims at I the end rather than at what contributes to the end."
"For is convertible with some A; consequently if belongs necessarily to every, it will belong necessarily also to some."
"Further, seed must have come into being first, and not straightway the animals"
"Many hot springs therefore are due to strokes of thunderbolts."
"Is it because, since an echo is due to refraction, the air when enclosed is necessarily massed together, and so the sound has something dense and smooth upon which it can stri and from which it can be refracted,"
"Thus much we are already in a position to say; for the ancients bear witness to us their opinion may be gathered from the fact that music is one of the received and traditional branches of education."
"But motion is antagonistic to fat, for it tends to melt it."
"For it is the nature of the whole to move to the point to which the part naturally moves."
"Again, when it is not separate it is described as a part in a whole, as the pupil in the eye or the hand in the body: when it is separate, as the water in the cask or the wine in the jar."
"The people we pity are: those whom we know, if only they are not very closely related to us in that case we feel about them as if we were in danger ourselves."
"Observation of the sense organs and their employment reveals a distinction between the impassibility of the sensitive faculty and that of the faculty of thought."
"But since we reckoned up certain means of the feelings, we must say with what sort of feelings they are concerned. ."
"As, then, the physician ought to be called to account by physicians, so ought men in general to be called to account by their peers."
"Such is the state of mind which creates revolutions."
"(which was the conclusion) and assume that belongs to all of that to none of which A belongs."
"But he who first supposed that the Forms exist and that the Forms are numbers and that the objects of mathematics exist, naturally separated the two."
"Therefore the infinite must be without parts and indivisible."
"It is clear, then, that there are two kinds of good luck, the one divine and so the lucky seem to succeed owing to god the other natural."
"and antithetically such sayings can be expressed, the more taking they are, for antithesis impresses the new idea more firmly and brevity more quickly."
"They must necessarily have most of their characteristics in common; but it is the points which are peculiar to each kind that we must consider."
"For the Cretans have no foreigndominions and, when lately foreign invaders found their way into the island, the weakness of the Cretan constitution was revealed."
"If trees are planted in temperate soil, they reach maturity quickly before the days of spring, because, when the heat is almost temperate and the moisture has made its appearance and the air is clear, the fruit will not require much heat during the process of concoction."
"what are called fleas, fish are met with in a state so motionless that one might easily catch them by hand; and, as a matter of fact, these little creatures, if the fish remain long in one position, will attack them in myriads and devour them."
"And it is no small matter, starting from temperature as a principle, to collect the cause of the origin of these parts, as if it were a necessary consequence for this part which they call the uterus to be formed in the embryo under the influence of cold but not under that of heat."
"created against us in previous speeches, we shall anticipate the judgement of our audience and, after briefly defending and excusing ourselves from the prejudices thus caused, shall then state our proposition and exhort our hearers to give us their attention."
"I Life is found in animals and plants; but while in animals it is clearly manifest, in plants it is hidden and not evident."
"Is it because they are nearer to the part of the body which contains the excrement, so that, when that part overflows with heat owing to the movement, the thighs contract more readily and to a greater extent?"
"The friendship of children to parents, and of men to gods, is a relation to them as to something good and superior; for they have conferred the greatest benefits, since they are the causes of their being and of their nourishment, and of their education from their birth; and this kind of friendship possesses pleasantness and utility also, more than that of strangers, inasmuch as their life is lived more in common."
"In the same way also clear, as applied to a body, signifies a colour, but in regard to a sound it denotes what is easy to hear."
"only a minute organ of the animal is mutilated, and the creature passes from the male to the female form."
"Agreement, like friendship, does not appear to have a single meaning; but still in its primary and natural form it is good; and so the bad cannot agree; the agreement of the bad, when they choose and desire the same things, is something different."
"Is it because the heat fails in the region of the body in which the voice is situated, while the trembling of the lip and hands is due to the fact that they are very easily set in motion and contain very little blood?"
"For the two countries are nearly connected; the Lyctians are a colony of the Lacedaemonians, and the colonists, when they came to Crete, adopted the constitution which they found existing among the inhabitants."
"Suppose all the rest of our flesh was sensitive to flavour, we should have identified the sense of taste and the sense of touch; but in fact they are two, for they do not correspond."
"Again, supposing certain withdrawals could effect the same; for sometimes people secure more premisses than are necessary, so that it is not through them that the deduction comes about."
"every not man recovers'"
"(This subject has been dealt with more clearly in the treatise on fire.)"
"The faculty of seeing, thanks to the fact that all bodies are coloured, brings tidings of multitudes of distinctive qualities of all sorts; whence it is through this sense especially that we perceive the common sensibles, viz."
"This being assumed, it follows that your friend is the sort of man who shares your pleasure in what is good and your pain in what is unpleasant, for your sake and for no other reason."
"But if movement were infinite speed would be infinite also; and if speed then weight and lightness."
"And there are as many elements as terms; for the propositions containing these are principles of the demonstration."
"Now such deaths are those in battle; for these take place in the greatest and noblest danger."
"Now if it is the case that one circle has a greater inclination as compared with another circle, and is correspondingly easy to move, then it is also the case"
"Again, since the whole seems and has been assumed to revolve in a circle, and since it has been shown that outside the farthest circumference there is neither void nor place, from these grounds also it will follow necessarily that the heaven is spherical."
"Now the parts are obvious enough to perception."
"But it has been shown that this is impossible."
"I think, too, that all species of plants which are not cultivated become wild."
"It seems to be so also from the fact that it is a first principle; for it is for the sake of this that we all do everything else, and the first principle and cause of goods is, we claim, something prized and divine."
"It is clear then from what has been said that if the terms are related to one another in the way stated, a deduction results of necessity; and if there is a deduction, the terms must be so related."
"But building is a kind of motion, and the same account will apply to the other kinds also."
"And as regards their shape within the womb, the four footed animals all lie stretched out, and the footless animals lie on their sides, as for instance fishes; but two legged animals lie in a bent position, as for instance birds; and human embryos lie bent, with nose between the knees and eyes upon the knees, and the ears free at the sides."
"and in general number is thought by some to be of this nature; for if it is destroyed, they say, nothing exists, and it limits all things."
"Since, then, certain arguments seem opposed, we must speak more clearly about the voluntary."
"But nothing that is not in a place is perceptible."
"And this is confirmed by the facts; for it was when almost all the necessities of life and the things that make for comfort and recreation were present, that such knowledge began to be sought."
"For if the matter is one, line and plane Ross marks this clause as corrupt (M) and solid will be the same; for from the same elements will come one and the same thing."
"Also, those refutations that draw their conclusion through the consequent you should show up in the course of the argument itself."
"For a formed decision is stable, and where we do not act quickly or easily, we get the Reading to philoumeno."
"these are oligarchical features; their being without salary and not elected by lot, and any similar points, such as the practice of having all suits tried by the magistrates, and not some by one class and some by another, as at Lacedaemon, are characteristic of aristocracy."
"Each sphere, in fact, has its particular natural motion, to which the general movement is, as it were, added."
"Hence as regards the things that are or come to be by nature, though that from which they naturally come to be or are is already present, we say they have not Frag."
"At the same time, we show courage in situations where there is the opportunity of showing prowess or where death is noble; but in these forms of death neither of these conditions is fulfilled."
"We call a limit the last point of each thing, ie the first point beyond which it is not possible to find any part, and the first point within which every part is; it is applied to the form,"
"Drugs therefore are bitter and evil smelling; for they are drugs because, in addition to being bitter, they do not admit of concoction and can cause motion; and if they are administered in too large doses, they are destructive of life."
"We speak of 'becoming that from this' instead of 'this becoming that' more in the case of what does not survive the change 'becoming musical from unmusical', not 'from man' but we sometimes use the latter form of expression even of what survives; we speak of a statue coming to be from bronze, not of the bronze becoming a statue."
"Again, many animals move by walking as well as by swimming."
"If, therefore, in the latter it is not exertion which causes fatigue, but they feel fatigue because of the condition in which they are, so vomiting could not be the cause of fatigue in those who do not get rid of all the food which is in them; for in that case every one who vomited would feel fatigue, whereas many through vomiting become less fatigued."
"This then is an external disturbance, while that caused by wine is internal; but there is no real difference, the effect being the same"
"And first let us discuss persuasion and dissuasion, since they are used most of all in private conversations and in public harangues."
"As for their end, the menstrual discharge ceases in most women about their fortieth year; but with those in whom it goes on longer it lasts even to the fiftieth year, and women of that age have been known to bear children."
"Let us now try to set forth the causes of all these things, both common and special, and in so doing let us follow that order of exposition which conforms, as we have indicated, to the order of nature."
"For in some cases the organ is composed of flesh and gristle, as in man; in such cases, the fleshy part does not become inflated, but the gristly part is subject to enlargement."
"and so it is a difficult task for it to solidify the moisture and form phlegm?"
"The laziest are shepherds, who lead an idle life, and get their subsistence without trouble from tame animals; their flocks having to wander from place to place in search of pasture, they are compelled to follow them, cultivating a sort of living farm."
"In regard to the perception of hedgehogs, it has been observed in many places that, when the wind is shifting from north to south, and from south to north, they shift the outlook of their earth holes, and those that are kept indomestication shift over from one wall to the other."
"For what can cause movement is relative to what can be moved, and vice versa."
"Hence it is that prodigals call the liberal illiberal, while the illiberal call the liberal prodigals, and the rash and headlong call the brave cowards, while cowards call the brave headlong and mad."
"It remains, then, to say how to investigate whether the object has been either not defined at all, or else defined incorrectly."
"If, then, a refutation is a sort of deduction, an argument depending on an accident will not be a refutation."
"That improvement has occurred is shown by the fact that old customs are exceedingly simple and barbarous."
"non accidentally is to have a demonstration."
"that all place admits of the distinction of up and down, and each of the bodies is naturally carried to its appropriate place and rests there, and this makes the place either up or down."
"For the deductions become identical with those which are obtained by means of conversion, so that we obtain immediately the figures through which each problem will be solved."
"Of course, in overthrowing a statement there is no need to start the discussion by securing any admission, whether the attribute is said to belong to all or to none of something; for if we prove that in any case whatever the attribute does not belong, we shall have demolished the universal assertion of it, and likewise if we prove that it belongs even in a single case, we shall demolish the universal denial of it."
"For behold in his fury he doeth despite to the senseless clay."
"But into the subtleties of the mythologists it is not worth our while to inquire seriously; those, however, who use the language of proof we must cross examine and ask why, after all, things which consist of the same elements are, some of them, eternal in nature, while others perish."
"How is it related to the voluntary?"
"Now it is the kneading that binds the bread; so that unkneaded bread is already on the way to breaking up."
"For constructive purposes, on the other hand, see if what is more is a property of what is more; for then also what is less will be a property of what is less, and least of least, and most of most, and without qualification of without qualification."
"In this case the bridegroom, fancying some occurrence to be of evil omen, came to the bride, and went away without taking her."
"These, then, are practically all the senses in which causes are spoken of, and as they are spoken of in several senses it follows that there are several causes of the same thing, and in no accidental sense, eg both the art of sculpture and the bronze are causes of the statue not in virtue of anything else"
"For every deduction proves that something belongs either simply or necessarily or possibly."
"come through the middle figure; for since paleness follows women with child and is a concomitant of this woman, people suppose it has been proved that she is with child."
"And understanding and knowledge pursued for their own sake"
"I mean that there must be something that is in motion, eg a man or gold, and it must be in motion in something, eg a place or an affection, and at some time (for all motion takes place in time)."
"He asked no questions as to how flesh or bones, or any of the other similar things, come to be; nor again did he examine the conditions under which alteration or growth are attributable to things."
"Differences between citizens ought to be settled as quickly as possible and not be allowed to continue."
"For that which is equable is uniform, and that which is uniform is the more subject to similar influences; so if any part suffers, the whole straightaway suffers in sympathy."
"Or is it because breathing is a noise, and when it takes place in the act of exhaling it impedes the hearing?"
"And so, either there will be no absolutely light body, if superiority of weight is due to superior size or number of the constituent bodies or to the fullness of the body (but the contrary is a matter of observation, and it has been shown that the downward and upward movements are equally constant and universal); or, if the matter in question is the void or something similar, which moves uniformly upward, there will be nothing to move uniformly downward."
"This surely is just what happens in the pipes."
"For clearly the opposite of perpendicularity will be to fall backwards and downwards, and objects carried downwards would be heavier."
"So when the votes have proved equal, indicating bo that the accuser has brought an unjust charge and that Reading diokon for adikon."
"The severest earthquakes take place where the sea is full of currents or the earth spongy and cavernous: so they occur near the Hellespont and in Achaea and Sicily, and those parts of Euboea where the sea is supposed to flow in channels below the earth."
"When, therefore, being so placed that they are in a similar position to one another and midway between an upward and a downward and an oblique movement, the two eyeballs catch the visual ray on corresponding points of themselves, they do not have a squint and their gaze is perfectly steady (though when they catch the visual rays on corresponding points of themselves, although the vision does not squint they differ.)"
"This is why the activities we exhibit must be of a certain kind; it is because the states correspond to the differences between these."
"And it is not true that animals are generated in the concoction of food, as some say."
"times be and sometimes not so that one cannot deduce universally, but only that it holds now."
"that they are means and that they are states, and that they tend by their own nature to the doing of the acts by which they are produced, and that they are in our power and voluntary, and act as right reason prescribes."
"For the incomposite is prior to the compound; and if there are, prior to the sensible bodies, bodies which are not sensible, by the same argument the planes which exist by themselves must be prior to those which are in the motionless solids."
"In the other concords the termination of one of the two notes is incomplete since it coincides with the end of only a half of the other; and so they are not equal in force, and being unequal they make a different impression on the sense perception, as happens in a chorus when at the conclusion they are singing louder than others."
"Do they feel cold because they are chilled, and thirst because they are heated, since under the influence of fear and heat and the moisture leave the upper parts of the body?"
"For though it separates bodies different in kind, it combines those which are the same; and the combining is essential to it, the functions of connecting and uniting being a mark of fire, while the separating is incidental."
"Such appears to be the truth about the generation of bees, judging from theory and from what are believed to be the facts about them; the facts, however, have not yet been sufficiently grasped; if ever they are, then credit must be given rather to observation than to theories, and to theories only if what they affirm agrees with the observed facts."
"In a word, the type of character produced by wealth is that of a prosperous fool."
"Or else both of the first pair may be attached to one of the second; and this too gives two modes, eg to do good to friends and to do evil to friends, or to do good to enemies and to do evil to enemies."
"And contraries are different, and contrariety is a kind of difference."
"Air and water in themselves are by nature white, fire (and the sun) yellow, and earth is naturally white."
"Similarly also demonstration will be possible in the case of the negative."
"Is it because a small amount of water, as it is carried along, is more divided by the air than a large amount?"
"several, one of which would be defined as 'two footed animal', while there might be also several other formulae if only they were limited in number; for a special name might be assigned to each of the formulae."
"If, on the other hand, it grows by the accession of a body, there will be two bodies"
"If, then, the view laid down by the answerer is reputable or implausible without qualification, then the views that are accepted without qualification must be taken as the standard of comparison; whereas if the view laid down is not reputable or implausible without qualification, but only to the answerer, then he must judge with reference to himself what seems or does not seem, and must grant or refuse to grant the point asked accordingly."
"For they say that its use is to affect that part of the soul which is lodged in the neighbourhood of the liver, vexing this part so as to congeal it, and restoring it to cheerfulness when it again flows free."
"For the good is found both in the order and in the leader, and more in the latter; for he does not depend on the order but it depends on him."
"Once more: there are three offices according to whose directions the highest magistrates are chosen in certain states guardians of the law, probuli, councillors of these, the guardians of the law are an aristocratic, the probuli an oligarchical, the council a democratic, institution."
"When, therefore, the quantity already expelled from the body is great but the discharge still continues, only not on such a scale as to wash away the semen, then it is that conception accompanies coition."
"For barley is not only moister than wheat, but it is also colder, and porridge and any other food which is served to one who is in a fever ought to be such that it will provide him with a little nourishment and also cool him."
"Accordingly it is clear that the dialectician's business is to be able to grasp on how many considerations depends the formation, through common principles, of a refutation that is either real or apparent, ie either dialectical or apparently dialectical, or suitable for an examination."
"With many men and many women it so happens that they are unable to produce children to one another, while they are able to do so in union with other individuals."
"So much, then, for the organs of the crustacea."
"If then the universal statement is opposed to the particular, we have stated when a deduction will be possible and when not; but if the premisses are similar in form, I mean both negative or both affirmative, a deduction will not be possible at all."
"This is why hiccuping stops if the breath is held (for the region then becomes warm); and the application of vinegar, which is heating, has the same effect."
"Now relatively to one another hard and soft are indefinable, because it is a matter of degree, but since all the objects of sense are determined by reference to the faculty of sense"
"for there could not be a before and an after if time did not exist."
"This is clear from our definition of primary, in which the word is said to express just this; it may also, however, be made evident by the following argument."
"Now the greater the distance between the eyes, the more will the sight incline sideways."
"That is why men say that the Gods have a king, because they themselves either are or were in ancient times under the rule of a king."
"Thus red wine more than anything else produces the condition found in atrabilious persons."
"There is violent death and again natural death, and the former occurs when the cause of death is external, the latter when it is internal, and involved from the beginning in the constitution of the organ, and not an affection derived from a foreign source."
"And this is necessary for the reason that whenever a living thing is produced it must grow."
"On the supposition of Forms such as some assert, this must be the case, and equally on the view that no such entity has a separate existence."
"From what has been said, then, and from the wise men who have now sat in council with us, we have got this much both from the earliest philosophers, who regard the first principle as corporeal (for water and fire and such things are bodies), and of whom some suppose that there is one corporeal principle, others that there are more than one, but both put these under the head of matter; and from some others who posit both this cause and besides this the source of movement, which is stated by some as one and by others as two."
"Obviously then the form also, or whatever we ought to call the shape of the sensible thing, is not produced, nor does production relate to it, ie the essence is not produced; for this is that which is made to be in something else by art or by nature or by some capacity."
"(for we must not make people believe what is wrong), but"
"Now perspiration involves more exertion if induced by running about naked: for a naked man cannot perspire at all unless he runs with considerable energy; whereas, if he be clothed, owing to the heat produced by his garments, he soon perspires although he runs only moderately fast."
"They must be used when your statement is not credible and you wish to establish its truth when it does not gain credence from the argument of probability; the object being that your hearers, learning that another action similar to that of which you are speaking has been carried out in the way in which you declare it to have been done, may be more ready to believe what you say."
"this no one tells us."
"It is, indeed, possible to move oneself even if the leg be not bent, in the way in which children crawl."
"For in one whose voice is in this state, since most of the heat collects within as a result of the above conditions, the rest, which is small in quantity, cannot control the voice; consequently it shakes and trembles."
"Retaining epektasin, kata tauta."
"For it is a matter of observation that every natural body possesses a principle of movement."
"On the other hand there were others who thought the matter was adequate by itself to account for coming to be, since the movement originates from the matter."
"In fact they are not, but the corruptions in question are accidental, and it is the matter of the animal that is itself in virtue of its corruption the potency and matter of a corpse, and it is water that is the matter of vinegar."
"Dense differs from rare in containing more matter in the same bulk."
"that correlated with tastes, is, as has been said before, perceptible also to the other animals."
"But if on digital examination the lips feel somewhat rough and adherent, and if they be likewise thin, then the chances are in favour of conception."
"For the negation of 'it is true to call it white' is not 'it is true to call it not white'"
"First, then, we must ascertain what are the kinds of things, good or bad, about which the deliberative orator offers counsel."
"These therefore are all provided with a lung."
"Why are theatrical artists generally persons of bad character?"
"For we suppose that, if god is the disposer of such things, he assigns both good and evil in accordance with desert, whereas chance and the things of chance do really occur as it may chance."
"The vertebrae are all perforated, and, above, the bony portion of the head is connected with the topmost vertebrae, and is designated the skull."
"We have further determined completely by what means speeches may be invested with the required character."
"and what deductions can be made from possible propositions."
"we invariably make use straightway and without thought of the resources which we have in ourselves by nature, and against all or most forms of pain heat is helpful."
"But even of taste they appear to make little or no use; for the business of taste is the discriminating of flavours, which is done by wine tasters and people who season dishes; but they hardly take pleasure in making these discriminations, or at least self indulgent people do not, but in the actual enjoyment, which in all cases comes through touch, both in the case of food and in that of drink and in that of sexual intercourse."
"For this reason, should the kidneys of a man be once attacked by disease, the malady is not easily expelled."
"All contraries, then, are always predicable of a subject, and none can exist apart."
"wherewith it is moved itself."
"Moreover, in those days, when cities were not large, the people dwelt in the fields, busy at their work; and their chiefs, if they possessed any military talent, seized the opportunity, and winning the confidence of the masses by professing their hatred of the wealthy, they succeeded in obtaining the tyranny."
"The animal lives for a long period, more than fifty years."
"Moreover the same thing applies to cephalopods also and crustacea, yet these animals are actually seen copulating, for their union lasts a long time, and it is plain in these cases that the one is male and the other has a uterus."
"Again, if it is maintained that an admixture of earth makes the sea salt (for they say that earth has many flavours and is washed down by the rivers and so makes the sea salt by its admixture), it is strange that rivers should not be salt too."
"We must also discuss the remaining forms of movement, viz."
"It would seem that he should ransom his father in preference even to himself."
"But those who maintain the infinite series destroy the good without knowing it."
"And after emitting this they cease their union."
"Only three (meli, kommi, peperi) end in I, and five in. . ."
"Let us say what each of them is."
"Another commonplace is the use of indignant language, whether to support Frag."
"Where, as among the Lacedaemonians, the state of women is bad, almost half of them are not happy."
"Drossaart Lulofs marks a lacuna in the text here."
"The answer to these questions will also make it clear what choice is."
"Not of good will towards them, but to make The ruin of them more conspicuous."
"Next there would be a life of perception, but it also seems to be common even to the horse, the ox, and every animal."
"For it is this which chooses the better."
"First, then, can one perceive different things simultaneously but with different parts of the soul in a time which is indivisible and forms a continuous whole?"
"First, there must be food; secondly, arts, for life requires many instruments; thirdly, there must be arms, for the members of a community have need of them, and in their own hands, too, in order to maintain authority both against disobedient subjects and against external assailants; fourthly, there must be a certain amount of revenue, both for internal needs, and for the purposes of war; fifthly, or rather first, there must be a care of religion, which is commonly called worship; sixthly, and most necessary of all, there must be a power of deciding what is for the public interest, and what is just in men's dealings with one another."
"For the complete is naturally prior to the incomplete, and the circle is a complete thing."
"For nothing that is by nature becomes other by custom."
"And wherever a pair of contraries admits of an intermediate, motions to that intermediate must be held to be in a sense motions to one or other of the contraries; for the intermediate serves as a contrary for the purposes of the motion, in whichever direction the change may be, eg grey in a motion from grey to white takes the place of black as starting point, in a motion from white to grey"
"The reason of this is that the radius undergoes two displacements."
"Likewise if the proposition is negative, and is affirmative, the former stating possible, the latter simple attribution, a perfect deduction results proving that A possibly belongs to no."
"But the friendship which takes place in these cases has not all the required attributes."
"For if the Forms are causes, why is their generating activity intermittent instead of perpetual and continuous since there always are participants as well as Forms?"
"(Nor yet even if it were not produced by generation.)"
"If we are speaking first, we must thus anticipate what our opponents are likely to say and so destroy and invalidate their pleas."
"Or is it because when we are asleep the heat is driven inwards?"
"He may have wished to see somebody or been following somebody or avoiding somebody, or may have gone to see a spectacle."
"The smallest of all the species is the turtle dove."
"Of male animals that have their testicles placed frontwards, some have them inside, close to the belly, as the dolphin; some have them outside, exposed to view, close to the lower extremity of the belly."
"They say that among the Bactrians also the river Oxus carries down numerous small nuggets of gold, and moreover that in Iberia the river called Theodorus"
"This can be illustrated by the fact that figs, though eaten last, are vomited out last."
"And the original acquisition of knowledge is not a becoming or an alteration; for we are said to know and to understand when our intellect has reached a state of rest and come to a standstill, and there is no becoming that leads to a state of rest, since, as we have said above, no change at all can have a becoming."
"This membrane, alike in animals that have a single and in those that have a multiple stomach, grows from the middle of that organ, along a line which is marked on it like a seam."
"For soul is the substance or actuality of some body; but animal might be applied to both, not that both are definable by one formula but because they refer to the same thing."
"That, when it is in motion, the mind cannot think, not only in its waking hours but also in sleep, is proved by the fact that one is least likely to see visions during the sleep which follows the taking of food; now this is the time when the mind is most disturbed owing to the nourishment which has been introduced into the body."
"For it is by denial and removal that it explains the contrary; for the contrary is the primary privation, and this is the entire removal of the positive term."
"Nor are sanguine people brave; for they are confident in danger only because they have conquered often and against many foes."
"The general account being of this nature, the account of particular cases is yet more lacking in exactness; for they do not fall under any art or set of precepts, but the agents themselves must in each case consider what is appropriate to the occasion, as happens also in the art of medicine or of navigation."
"The octopus discharges into its hole, or into a potsherd or into any similar cavity, a structure resembling the tendrils of a young vine or the fruit of the white poplar, as has been previously observed."
"This funnel is placed on the under surface of the animal."
"But further, if the 'this' and the quantitative are not the same, we are not told how and why the things that are are many, but how quantities are many."
"And the vein which extends to the vertebra of the neck and the backbone, stretches back again along the backbone; as Homer represents in the lines: He cut through all that vein which runs along the back right to the neck."
"should be, if a refutation or deduction is to be effected; eg if the point concerns a doublet, then you should deduce about a doublet, not about a cloak."
"For the absurd statement has actually been made that the description 'dependent on the word' describes all the arguments that depend on language; whereas some of these are fallacies not because the answerer adopts a particular attitude towards them, but because the argument itself involves the asking of a question such as bears more than one use."
"For if it is possible for no man to be a horse, it is also admissible for no horse to be a man; and if it is admissible for no garment to be white, it is also admissible for nothing white to be a garment."
"But the extremity of the whole, which we call 'above', is in position above and in nature primary."
"Clearly, then, intermediates are all in the same genus and intermediate between contraries and compounded out of the contraries."
"All animals that ruminate derive profit and pleasure from the process of rumination, as they do from the process of eating."
"But the females, owing to inability to concoct, have a great quantity of blood, for it cannot be worked up into semen."
"The continuous is a species of the contiguous; two things are called continuous when the limits of each, with which they touch and are kept together, become one and the same, so that plainly the continuous is found in the things out of which a unity naturally arises in virtue of their contact."
"Again, since figures are infinite in number, savours also should be infinite; for why should one savour be perceived, and another not?"
"Again we ask whether the principles are universal or like individual things, and whether they exist potentially or actually; further, whether they are potential or actual in any other sense than in reference to movement; for these questions also would present much difficulty."
"That is a question not quite so easily answered."
"But these are created by friendship, for to choose to live together is friendship."
"It is a good thing to have a few drones in a hive, as their presence increases the industry of the workers."
"Fishes and Insects and the hard skinned Crustacea present certain differences in their eyes, but none of them have eyelids."
"But the continent man must; for if the appetites are good, the state that restrains us from following them is bad, so that not all continence will be good; while if they are weak and not bad, there is nothing admirable in resisting them, and if they are weak and bad, there is nothing great in resisting these either."
"In the categories other than substance there is another matter to give us pause, viz."
"Thus (e.g.) animal is the genus of raven, and so is bird."
"but in so far as each of them is continuous in one or two or three dimensions; but philosophy does not inquire about particular subjects in so far as each of them has such and such attributes, (K) but considers each subject in relation to being qua being."
"Therefore such sciences must deal with contraries, but with one in virtue of their own nature and with the other not in virtue of their nature; for the rational formula applies to one object in virtue of that object's nature, and to the other, in a sense, accidentally."
"It follows that there is a justification for regarding these two as the sources of movement, ie appetite and practical thought; for the object of appetite starts a movement and as a result of that thought gives rise to movement, the object of appetite being to it a source of stimulation."
"For were it not so placed all prehension would be as impossible, as were there no hand at all."
"(Further, how can there be any before and after without the existence of time?"
"Again, tragic imitation requires less space for the attainment of its end"
"Each sense has one kind of object which it discerns, and never errs in reporting that what is before it is colour or sound (though it may err as to what it is that is coloured or where that is, or what it is that is sounding or where that is)."
"And similarly for the others."
"Now since on the one hand contraries do not occur in the same thing, but on the other hand science is a potentiality which depends on the possession of a rational formula, and the soul possesses a principle of movement; therefore, on the other hand, the healthy produces only health and what can heat only heat and what can cool only cold, but the scientific man, on the other hand, produces both the contrary effects."
"For the same terms must be taken as have been taken when the propositions are universal, positive terms in positive deductions, negative terms in negative."
"Unity there should be, both of the family and of the state, but in some respects only."
"The principle of distinction between bodies being quantity, the various sizes will be in a definite ratio, and whatever bodies are in this ratio to one another must be air, fire, earth, and water respectively."
"It is also obvious that, if all substances are in a sense numbers, they are so in this sense and not, as some say as numbers of units."
"Is it because, whenever a wound is dealt, the part affected is always weak and becomes weaker the more often it is wounded?"
"If of the same, the science of substance also must be a demonstrative science; but it is thought that there is no demonstration of the essence of things."
"Now some think that because one must understand the primitives there is no understanding at all; others that there is, but that there are demonstrations of everything."
"The brain itself in all animals is destitute of blood, and no vein, great or small terminates there."
"How will there be two alterations of quality in one subject towards one form?"
"But then in contrariwise Once more the air comes in and water meet flows out."
"The other compound colours may be those which are not based on numbers."
"If, then, there are many forms of government, it is evident that there is not one single excellence of the good citizen which is perfect excellence."
"So it is evident from what has been said, both in what way there is a demonstration of what a thing is,"
"And it is clearer in the case of tyranny that it is the worst deviation form; but it is the contrary of the best that is worst."
"Or the opposite one of Isocrates, that their empire (arche) was the beginning (arche) of their troubles."
"This is so even if one is addressing a single person and urging him to do or not to do something, as when we advise a man about his conduct or try to change his views: the single person is as much your judge as if he were one of many; we may say, without qualification, that anyone is your judge whom you have to persuade."
"Thus (e.g.) inasmuch as being more highly coloured is not a property of what is more a body, neither will being less highly coloured be a property of what is less a body, nor being coloured be a property of body at all."
"If the possessor of excellence is happy, why should he need a friend?"
"Let A be animal, what follows every animal, and, individual animals."
"The weights, therefore, of the finite and of the infinite body are equal."
"For if a man has not defined the object by the differentiae to it, or has mentioned something such as is utterly incapable of being a differentia of anything, eg animal or substance, clearly he has not defined it at all; for the aforesaid terms are not differentiae of anything at all."
"Of the east winds, that which blows from the region of the summer sunrise is called Caecias; that which blows from the region of the equinoctial sunrise is known as Apeliotes; while the name of Eurus is given to the wind which blows from the quarter of the winter sunrise."
"These, then, are two pairs of opposites."
"But the usual antithesis to this kind of vice is divine and superhuman excellence."
"Now it is natural for the knees to bend forwards and the thighs to bend backwards."
"Proofs are of two kinds; some are derived directly from actual words, acts, and persons, others are supplementary to words and actions."
"these causes as goods; they do not speak, however, as if anything that exists either existed or came into being for the sake of these, but as if movements started from these."
"All these, then have a single stomach, and after that the gut; but the stomach in some is comparatively large, as in the pig and bear, and the stomach of the pig has a few smooth folds; others have a much smaller stomach, not much bigger than the gut, as the lion, the dog, and man."
"But since perfectly pure water does not, when subjected to the action of heat, show any tendency to acquire consistency, we must infer that some other agency than heat is the cause of sapidity."
"And the resulting phenomena are evidence that semen is what we have said, and these result because such is the nature of the residue."
"Again, if men are deprived of the honours of state, and are wronged, and insulted, they make revolutions, and change forms of government, even although they have not wasted their substance because they might do what they like of which extravagance he declares excessive freedom to be the cause."
"Similarly, all the sciences and arts."
"The same reasoning applies equally to magnitude, to time, and to motion: either all of these are composed of indivisibles and are divisible into indivisibles, or none."
"Reasoning on this basis they take the view that it is not earth that lies at the centre of the sphere, but rather fire."
"We must suppose the reason to be that woman alone among animals is subject to troubles of the uterus, and alone has a superfluous amount of menstrual fluids and is unable to concoct them; when, then, the embryo has been formed of a liquid hard to concoct, then comes the so called mole into being, and this happens naturally in women alone or at any rate more than in other animals."
"Surely this is only natural; for in all good music mese occurs frequently, and all good composers have frequent recourse to mese, and, if they leave it, they soon return to it, as they do to no other note."
"But this will make no difference to the production of a deduction in either case; for both the demonstrator and the dialectician argue deductively after assuming that something does or does not belong to something."
"At first, the males are the sweeter eating; but, after copulation, the females, as they are full then of white eggs."
"Hence there is a single actuality of both alike, just as one to two and two to one are the same interval, and the steep ascent and the steep descent are one for these are one and the same, although their definitions are not one."
"Hence when, owing to lapse of time, the lung in the one class and the gills in the other get dried up, these organs become hard and earthy and incapable of movement and cannot be expanded or contracted."
"Whiteness is caused in all things by the vaporous air imprisoned in them."
"By and by the yolk, diminishing gradually in size, at length becomes entirely used up and comprehended within the chick (so that, ten days after hatching, if you cut open the chick, a small remnant of the yolk is still left in connexion with the gut), but it is detached from the navel, and there is nothing in the interval between, but it has been used up entirely."
"This subject will be treated in detail when we come to speak of the emotions."
"The following is an example of the use of corresponding particle: '"
"should also prove to be starting points of actions to be performed in the daytime, since the recurrence by day of the thought of these actions also has had its way paved for it in the images before the mind at night."
"Is it because they become hot and moist, and so they have no command over themselves and are affected by trifling causes?"
"The crayfish then, as has been said, has two teeth, large and hollow, in which is contained a juice resembling the mytis, and in between the teeth is a fleshy substance, shaped like a tongue."
"Moreover, if like can be affected by like, a thing can also be affected by itself; and yet if that were so if like tended in fact to act qua like there would be nothing indestructible or immovable, for everything would move itself."
"This is why, as has been said before, the man of experience is thought to be wiser than the possessors of any perception whatever, the artist wiser than the men of experience, the master worker than the mechanic, and the theoretical kinds of knowledge to be more of the nature of wisdom than the productive."
"For all other things become moist when they touch water."
"And the connexion between the latter and the glans is called the frenum."
"For touch more than any other sense appears to be correlated to several distinct kinds of objects, and to recognize more than one category of contrasts, heat and cold, for instance, dry and wet, and other similar oppositions."
"It is necessary first to give precision to our treatment of food, for it is by this function of absorbing food that this psychic power is distinguished from all the others."
"But the illiberal man may even be lavish in the accidental pursuit of wealth, for it is in the natural pursuit of it that he aims at increase."
"This is clear from the definition; for it was in this way that we explained 'to be possible to belong to every'."
"That is locally contrary which is most distant in a straight line; for the shortest line is definitely limited, and that which is definitely limited constitutes a measure."
"The explanation of this is that its flexions are not forward nor its legs bandy."
"Or he may do it, but in ignorance of his relationship, and discover that afterwards, as does the Oedipus in Sophocles."
"Why is it that those who hesitate in their speech cannot speak softly?"
"For which would do more evil, a lion, or Dionysius or Phalaris or Clearchus, or some of those wicked men?"
"After him came Socrates, who spoke better and further about this subject, but even he was not successful."
"This, then, is the complete good, which (as we saw) was happiness."
"Just such another organ is found also in the Crustacea and there too is known by the same name."
"One may see this by considering the affections."
"Another consists in taking separately the parts of a subject."
"Polybus writes to the following effect: 'There are four pairs of veins."
"The brood of a single phalangium is sometimes three hundred in number."
"But each piece must, as we assert, have the same motion."
"When a certain war arose the workmen fled to them; but, as the mouth was built up, they were suffocated; and a long time afterwards, when the mines were cleared out, vessels, which they used to employ for daily uses, such as jars and the like, were found petrified."
"This sort of argument illustrates what is meant by making the worse argument seem the better."
"And if having a middle is used in several ways, the way here intended requires to be defined."
"These things, however, are frightening, for they are so to the majority of men."
"Further, man has no such parts in his body as those to which the superfluous matter is diverted in the other animals; for he has no great quantity of hair in proportion to his body, nor outgrowths of bones, horns, and teeth."
"For though it will be either flesh or bone or something else, that does not at once show that it contained these in potentiality: the further question remains, in what manner it becomes them."
"When corn was being sold in the country at ten drachmae, he summoned the dealers and asked them at what price they would do business with him."
"And this is the reason why Hellenic states were originally governed by kings; because the Hellenes were under royal rule before they came together, as the barbarians still are."
"You should, therefore, make room in the minds of the audience for your coming speech; and this will be done by getting your opponent's speech out of the way."
"The common error of all views which assume a single element is that they allow only one natural movement, which is the same for every body."
"The cloven footed animals again produce few, except the pig, which belongs to those that produce many."
"For one might try both to show that a man is not a biped, and also that a horse is a biped: in both ways the property would be upset."
"Now there is nothing better than excellence; for it is for its sake that all other things are, and the origination looks to this, and the contributory factors are rather for the sake of it; now the end seems to be a kind of principle, and everything is for the sake of it."
"But since many soon acquired a large number of cattle, thinking that they could keep them without paying a tax on them, when he thought that a fitting moment had come he gave orders that they should assess their value and then imposed a tax."
"Since, therefore, the body is divisible through and through, let it have been divided."
"Is it because the ducts of the body are emptier in those who are fasting and full in those who are full?"
"No quadruped with a solid hoof is retromingent."
"Of horned animals the deer alone has a horn hard and solid throughout."
"Nevertheless most of our poets, one may say, ignore the distinction."
"The dolphin bears one at a time generally, but occasionally two."
"The wind they call Thrascias, which lies between Argestes and Aparctias, blows from I;"
"a kind of sea weed or sea moss"
"For in this way are the testes attached to the seminal passages, and these again to the blood vessel which takes its origin in the heart near the organ which sets the voice in motion."
"Is it because the swimmer always leans on the water as he swims, and we receive more support from that which is of a more corporeal nature, and sea water is more corporeal than river water, for it is thicker and able to offer more resistance to pressure?"
"Because the magnitude is continuous, the movement too is continuous, and if the movement, then the time; for the time that has passed is always thought to be as great as the movement."
"an increase of heat such as is caused by anger?"
"All animals which are internally oviparous and externally viviparous"
"These matters will be treated more definitely in the sequel; our business at present is to state when and how"
"Extinction of fire in cloud."
"Acknowledgements Note to the Reader. . . ."
"(The one and the simple are not the same; for 'one' means a measure, but 'simple' means that the thing itself has a certain nature.)"
"Perhaps, however, time consists of 'nows', and both theses belong to the same way of thinking."
"Then the child is yours', because he happens to be both yours and a child; but he is not your child."
"Political revolutions also spring from a disproportionate increase in any part of the state."
"Also the now will be a now not in its own right but derivatively, for the division will not be a division in its own right."
"But if the deduction is particular, whenever the negative concerns the major extreme, reduction to the first figure will be possible, ie if A belongs to no and to some C: convert the negative and you will have the first figure."
"The phycis also changes its hue:"
"But because the intervening time, during which the vision comes into contact with and passes away from the object seen, is imperceptible, the moment during which it has been in contact and passed away seems to be one; and so when several glances come into contact with the same object at the same time, the objects seen appear to be several, because it is impossible for the glances to be in contact with the sa thing at the same time."
"These monarchies, when compared with one another, exhibit certain differences."
"For that which implies a likeness is the friendship of the good, and complete friendship; but that which implies unlikeness is the friendship of utility."
"What he says, then, is too simple"
"Necessarily, then, as fire goes up because it has something, eg void, which other things do not have, and earth goes downward because it has plenum, so air goes to its own place above water because it has something else, and water goes downward because of some special kind of body."
"For there is no necessity for the subject of locomotion to be the subject either of increase or of alteration, nor need it become or perish; on the other hand there cannot be any one of these processes without the existence of the continuous motion imparted by the first mover."
"For the parts of animals are covered in some cases with hair, in others with scales, in others with scaly plates; but birds have feathers."
"And since, the slower, has passed over in the time the quicker will pass over it in less time: so that the time will again be divided."
"For if light falls on a given object and is coloured by it crimson or herb green, and then the light reflected from that object falls on another colour, it is again modified by this second colour, and so it gets a new chromatic blend."
"as the number is thought to be perfect and to comprise the whole nature of numbers, they say that the bodies which move through the heavens are ten, but as the visible bodies are only nine, to meet this"
"And any thing can both be and come into being without being copied from something else, so that, whether Socrates exists or not, a man like Socrates might come to be."
"For arguments about matters concerned with feelings and actions are less reliable than facts: and so when they clash with the facts of perception they are despised, and discredit the truth as well; if a man who runs down pleasure is once seen to be aiming at it, his inclining towards it is thought to imply that it is all worthy of being aimed at; for most people are not good at drawing distinctions."
"For at least the substratum itself does not make itself change; eg neither the wood nor the bronze causes the change of either of them, nor does the wood manufacture a bed and the bronze a statue, but something else is the cause of the change."
"But if the science of substance and the science which deals with the axioms are different, which of them is more authoritative and prior?"
"The case would seem to be the same with cleverness."
"Alcidamas uses such expressions as 'the soul filling with rage and face becoming flameflushed', and 'he thought their enthusiasm would be issue fraught' and 'issuefraught he made the persuasion of his words', and 'sombre hued is the floor of the sea'."
"But nothing prevents each being partially false ie if were to belong both to some A and to some."
"And for this reason, those who are eminent in excellence usually do not stir up insurrections, being always a minority."
"For the veins have the shape of the entire body, like a sketch of a mannikin; in such a way that the whole frame seems to be filled up with little veins in very attenuated subjects for the space occupied by flesh in fat individuals is filled"
"Of these pairs the one set are causes in the sense of what underlies, eg the parts, the other set in the sense of essence the whole and the combination and the form."
"The intention is that through fear of the fines they may avoid registering themselves, and then they cannot sit in the law courts or in the assembly."
"The proof is that anger and wishing and desire are implanted in children from their very birth, but reason and understanding are developed as they grow older."
"For a couch is such and such a form embodied in this or that matter, or such and such a matter with this or that form; so that its shape and structure must be included in our description."
"Having laid this foundation, let us pass on to our next topic."
"The answer is that as from one point of view the master of the house and the ruler of the state have to consider about health, from another point of view"
"For any two portions of fire, small or great, will exhibit the same ratio of solid to void; but the upward movement of the greater is quicker than that of the less, just as the downward movement of a mass of gold or lead, or of any other body endowed with weight, is quicker in proportion to its size."
"For clearly, if the soul be Fire, only such properties will belong to it as characterize Fire qua Fire; while if it be compounded, only the corporeal modifications will occur in it."
"Bravery is an excellence of the passionate part, through which men are difficult to scare by apprehension of death."
"Does the unkneaded bread do so because it is not sufficiently bound together?"
"Of sponges there are three species; the first is of porous texture, the second is close textured, the third, which is nicknamed 'the sponge of Achilles', is exceptionally fine and close textured and strong."
"The symptoms of the disease are drooping of the ears and disinclination for food."
"Those of fellow citizens, fellow tribesmen, fellow voyagers, and the like are more like mere friendships of association; for they seem to rest on a sort of compact."
"Such things come to be, then, by the accession not of a quantity of flesh but of a quantity of something."
"The sincere and simple, or, as he is called, straightforward man, is a mean between the dissembler and the boaster."
"This liquefied matter flows into the region usually occupied by the nourishment and itself becomes nourishment for the body; if it attacks the seat of respiration, loss of voice and weakness ensue, the loss of voice being due to the obstruction of the passage of the breath, while the weakness is caused by the lack of nourishment in the body and internal liquefaction."
"Hence you will prove the one"
"Perhaps, however, it would be more accurate to say composition out of the elementary forces; nor indeed out of all of these, as said elsewhere in previous treatises."
"There is another kind of daw found in Lydia and Phrygia, which is web footed."
"The already actualized alterations."
"For another kind cannot be, because the product of male and female of the same species is also of the same species, and a mule cannot be, because that is the product of horse and ass which are different in form, and it was laid down that from parents different in form is born a different animal."
"Like others we have mentioned, it builds in trees; it feeds on grubs.)"
"When we have adversaries to contend with, if it is a question of words, we shall obtain confirmation in support of our case from the actual words uttered; in suits about contracts we shall do so by dealing with them in accordance with unwritten and written laws with the support of the best possible testimony and within definite limits of time."
"For there is absolute necessity, manifested in eternal phenomena; and there is hypothetical necessity, manifested in everything that is generated as in everything that is produced by art, be it a house or what it may."
"It is because these qualities fashion bodies that we find heat in all of them, and in some cold in so far as heat is absent."
"But if belongs to no, to every, there will be no deduction."
"The answer to the question we are asking is plain also from the definiti for it has been said to be a certain kind of activity of soul."
"Moreover, all polydactylous quadrupeds, as dog, lion, wolf, fox, jackal, produce their young blind, and the eyelids do not separate till after birth."
"Further, why is a number, when taken all together, one?"
"by the supporters of this theory."
"at least we wish them to like us."
"Besides, that element is eternal and its motion has no limit in space, but is always complete; whereas all these other bodies have separate regions which limit one another.)"
"One would naturally suppose that what is made up of things which do not exist could have no share in reality."
"But when he has given orders that barley gruel shall be administered to a patient in a fever, and you say to him, 'But how am I to know when he has a fever?'"
"This too explains why, so long as the flesh of an animal is in its integrity, blood will flow from any part of it whatsoever that is cut."
"This license of the Lacedaemonian women existed from the earliest times, and was only what might be expected."
"the opposite is not pleasant to the ears clearly, then, not pleasant to the ears is the same thing as not beautiful."
"And further he will do so gladly and lavishly; for nice calculation is a niggardly thing."
"If, knowing and loving their own interests, they do not always attend to them, may they not be equally negligent of the interests of the public?"
"Both are to be avoided, but the irrational passions are thought not less human than reason is, and therefore also the actions which proceed from anger or appetite are the man's actions."
"Then if air is twice as thin, the body will traverse in twice the time that it does, and the time will be twice the time."
"So too with those who love for the sake of pleasure; it is not for their character that men love ready witted people, but because they find them pleasant."
"It is necessary therefore first to provide oneself with good slaves."
"Ethical studies may fairly be called political; and for this reason rhetoric masquerades as political science, and the professors of it as political experts sometimes from want of education, sometimes from ostentation, sometimes owing to other human failings."
"Of testaceans, some, that are incapable of motion, subsist on fresh water (for, being thinner than the seawater which concocts with it, it percolates through the grosser parts) just as they were originally engendered from the same."
"All arguments such as the following depend upon accident. '"
"Everything that is in locomotion is moved either by itself or by something else."
"Is it because, when one yawns, the drum of the ear, by means of which he hears, is inflated?"
"Animals that are oviparous or only externally viviparous have neither breasts nor milk, as the fish and the bird."
"Now the various forms in passing into one another See Timaeus."
"By the same reasoning, neither is conviction belief; for it is possible to have the same belief even without being convinced of it, whereas this is impossible if conviction is a species of belief; for it is impossible for a thing still to remain the same if it is entirely transferred out of its species, just as the same animal could not at one time be, and at another not be, a man."
"For the doctor and the builder define health or house, either by the intellect or by perception, and then proceed to give the accounts and the causes of each of the things they do"
"Also the organs of hearing must necessarily become compressed by the distension of the mouth in yawning."
"The human kidneys are also like those of the ox; being as it were made up of numerous small kidneys, and not presenting one unbroken surface like the kidneys of sheep and other quadrupeds."
"a Any one who keeps on asking one thing for a long time is a bad inquirer."
"Why is it that substances enclosed in inflated skins and closely covered vessels remain uncorrupted?"
"But we shall speak more plainly elsewhere about these matters."
"For if those who have seen most of what truth is possible for us (and these are those who seek and love it most)"
"I have already explained that there are many forms of constitution, and to what causes the variety is due."
"For this reason also children are thinner during the summer; for it is a case of 'fire added to fire'."
"The aegoliusowl flies by night, is seldom seen by day; it too lives on cliffs or in caverns; it feeds on two kinds of food; it has a strong hold on life and is full of resource."
"Is it from a desire to equalize matters?"
"Why does a circular object when it is thrown at first describe a straight Reading auton kai for autou."
"And so we must first determine the nature of this; for that which underlies a thing primarily is thought to be in the truest sense its substance."
"Hard is that the surface of which does not yield into itself; soft that which does yield but not by interchange of place: water, for instance, is not soft, for its surface does not yield to pressure or sink in but there is an interchange of place."
"From these considerations, then, the species predicated of individuals seem to be principles rather than the genera."
"For since what comes to be out of it will always be somewhere, it too must be somewhere either intrinsically or indirectly."
"The maenis, as was observed, changes its colour as does the smaris, and in summer time changes back from whitish to black, the change being especially marked about the fins and gills."
"There are none, for instance, in the blood of deer and of roes; and for this reason the blood of such animals as these never coagulates."
"To this we may reply that it is not whiteness but"
"For he may be born after the seventh or the eighth or the tenth month."
"Beyond the tropics no one can live; for there the shade would not fall to the north, whereas the earth is known to be uninhabitable before the shadow disappears or is thrown to the south; and the regions below the Bear are uninhabitable because of the cold."
"In Mesopotamia, a region of Syria, and at Istrus, they say that there are certain little snakes, which do not bite the people of the country, but do great injury to strangers."
"Of necessity A will pass clear of and of A at the same moment; for each overlaps the other to precisely the same extent."
"Plants ought not to grow in salt water, on account of its low temperature and dryness."
"And things can be causes of one another, eg exercise of good condition, and the latter of exercise; not, however, in the same way, but the one as end and the other as source of movement."
"However, as it is necessary that animals shall have bones or something analogous to them, such as the fish spines of water animals, it is also a matter of necessity that some of these bones shall contain marrow; for the substance contained within the bones is the nutriment out of which these are formed."
"Look and see also whether the cases are alike as regards a single thing and a number of things; for sometimes there is a discrepancy."
"Let us, then, by way of illustration only, ascertain what is in general the nature of happiness, and what are the elements of its constituent parts."
"Now large animals require abundant pasture, and this country supplies just such pasturage, and also supplies pasture grounds to suit the diverse seasons of the year."
"Perhaps it is even necessary, if each state has unimpeded activities, that whether the activity (if unimpeded) of all our states or that of some one of them is happiness, this should be the thing most worthy of our choice; and this activity is a pleasure."
"; therefore, if friendship is known from the particulars, and we should wish the particulars to belong to ourselves, it is plain that there is friendship towards ourselves, just as we maintained that there is injustice towards oneself."
"If, then, it is essential not to enhance the difficulty of the problem, he had better grant it; if, on the other hand, it is essential to deduce through premisses that are more familiar, he had better refuse."
"That the world was generated all are agreed, but, generation over, some say that it is eternal, others say that it is destructible like any other natural formation."
"And hence in the other classes too 'measure' means that by which each is first known, and the measure of each is a 'one' in length, in breadth, in depth, in weight, in speed."
"But these differ from the previous arguments; for in the former a preliminary agreement must be reached if one is to accept the conclusion (e.g. an agreement that if there is proved to be one faculty of contraries, then contraries"
"And this is just what causes the difficulty, that they do not act any longer when they are joined together in the same way as they acted when they were not connected; that is to say, when one is moved by the other not according to its natural motion, nor according to its own motion."
"But at any rate we may say that ignorance, if opposite, (for it has no superiority), but excellence is rather related in this way to vice in general."
"But sleep supervenes when such incapacity of exercise has neither arisen in some chance organ of sense, nor from some chance cause, but when, as has been just stated, it has its seat in the primary organ with which one perceives objects in general."
"Both plants and animals perish if not fed, for in that case they consume themselves; just as a large flame consumes and burns up a small one by using up its nutriment, so the natural warmth which is the primary cause of digestion consumes the material in which it is located."
"Both of them contain many other elements, and therefore we must carry our analysis further, and say that the government is not a democracy in which the freemen, being few in number, rule over the many who are not free, as at Apollonia on the Ionian Gulf, and at Thera (for in each of these states the nobles, who were also the earliest settlers, held office, although they were but a few out of many)."
"And we feel particularly angry with men of no account at all, if they slight us."
"and we should have taken sight, hearing, and smell to be a single sense."
"intemperance shyness gentleness"
"No, for infinite time has no end, but the I movement communicated has."
"But, indeed, nothing will even have perception if it is not perceiving, ie exercising its perception."
"For naturally a thing moves in one way, while its unnatural movements are manifold."
"Further, let the work of the soul be to produce living, th consisting in employment and being awake for slumber is a sort of inactivity and rest."
"They hold that the most important part of the world, which is the centre, should be most strictly guarded, and name the fire which occupies that place the 'Guard house of Zeus', as if the word 'centre' were quite unequivocal, and the centre of the mathematical figure were always the same with that of the thing or the natural centre."
"This is why the mathematical arts were founded in Egypt; for there the priestly caste was allowed to be at leisure."
"But the female is opposite to the male, and is female because of its inability to concoct and of the coldness of the sanguineous nutriment."
"On the one hand, then, it is in no way absurd that every perceptible body should be indivisible as well as divisible at any and every point."
"Again, wind should be produced without any affliction, as in the stomach, and this should be released, whether in large or small quantity, without disease; for this shows that the womb is not more solid than it should be and that it is not unresponsive, either by nature or by disease, but can make room for the growth of whatever it receives."
"This then is one principle (though not one or existent in the same sense as the 'this'); one is the form or definition; then further there is its contrary, the privation."
"(i.e. is not), possess,.g., any determinate size or quality or position?"
"Underneath the stomach, in another membrane, are the socalled eggs, identical in number in all cases, and that number is always an odd number, to wit five."
"But this consequence also we must not forget, that it follows that there are prior and posterior 's, and similarly with the other numbers."
"This system has two advantages: first, the rich do not fear the expense, even though they are unpaid themselves when the poor are paid; and secondly, cases are better tried, for wealthy persons, although they do not like to be long absent from their own affairs,"
"In the same way the theory of rhetoric is concerned not with what seems reputable to a given individual like Socrates or Hippias, but with what seems so to men of a given type; and this is true of dialectic also."
"It follows, then, that a greater number of goods is a greater good than one or than a smaller number, if that one or that smaller number is included in the count; for then the larger number surpasses the smaller, and the smaller quantity is surpassed as being contained in the larger."
"For in the demonstrative sciences there is a prior and posterior in order, for the elements are prior in order to the constructions (and in grammar the elements are prior to the syllables); likewise with speeches, for the introduction is prior in order to the exposition."
"When we are trying to stop a war which has actually started, if those to whom our advice is offered are stronger than their foes, the first point on which we must insist is that sensible men ought not to wait until they have a fall, but should make peace while they are strong; also, that it is characteristic of war to ruin many even of those who are successful in it, but of peace to save the vanquished and to allow the victorious to enjoy the possessions which they have gained in Fuhrmann marks a lacuna here."
"The result, therefore, is that of all things of which the genus is predicated, the species is predicated as well, seeing that being and one are predicates of absolutely everything, whereas the predication of the species ought to be of narrower range."
"And both serpents and lizards have this altogether exceptional property in the tongue, that it is forked at the end, and this property is the more marked in the serpent, for the tips of its tongue are as thin as hairs."
"The bracketed words are probably wrongly inserted from."
"To the hand belong the palm, and the five fingers."
"For it burns because the moisture is used up, and it makes a noise because it bursts."
"For it is with these when they are full of breath that he sneezes."
"It is cloven footed, and has not got teeth in both jaws; and it is cloven footed in the following way"
"high voiced nor all deep voiced, nor are all the older, nor yet are the two sexes thus opposed, and again that not only the sick speak in a high voice but also those in good bodily condition, and, further, that as men verge on old age they become higher voiced, though this age is opposite to that of youth."
"The breeze, therefore, from the sea is dispersed over a wide area and is consequently weak; whereas the breeze from a river is carried along in a mass and is stronger and therefore naturally seems colder."
"Hence it is not, possible to perceive the possibility of perceiving two distinct objects simultaneously with one and the same sense."
"for argument about definitions is mostly concerned with questions of sameness and difference."
"But there is a sort of man who is carried away as a result of passion and contrary to right reason a man whom passion masters so that he does not act according to right reason, but does not master to the extent of making him ready to believe that he ought to pursue such pleasures without reserve; this is the incontinent man, who is better than the self indulgent man, and not bad without qualification; for the best thing in him, the first principle, is preserved."
"If Fire (which is represented by F) is not to revert, but is to be transformed in turn into some other element (e.g. into Q), a new contrariety, other than those mentioned, will belong to Fire and Q; for it has been assumed that is not the same as any of the four, A and."
"Why are hounds least able to find the scent when a West wind is blowing?"
"What, then, is there that satisfies this criterion, which at the same time we can participate in?"
"We can say the man becomes musical, or what is not musical becomes musical, or the not musical man becomes a musical man."
"Now the mathematician, though he too treats of these things, nevertheless does not treat of them as the limits of a natural body; nor does he consider the attributes indicated as the attributes of such bodies."
"Why is it that marjoram, being thrown into the must, makes the wine sweet, and two cupfuls are thrown into a jar of wine?"
"All bodies are combustible that dissolve into ashes, and all bodies do this that solidify under the influence either of heat or of both heat and cold; for we find that all these bodies are mastered by fire."
"I mean those which do not arise from any opinion Evenus, frag."
"Subtract from the infinite body a finite mass, the weight of which shall be."
"Further, all animals have the sense for food (for touch is the sense for food; the food of all living things consists of what is dry, moist, hot, cold, and these are the qualities apprehended by touch)"
"Others again grew out of the class which were chosen to be chief magistrates; for in ancient times the people who elected them gave the magistrates, whether civil or religious, a long tenure."
"What is the origin of the saying, Straightway the winter comes, if the South wind call to the North wind?"
"It is said that some of the Ligurians sling so skilfully that, when they see several birds, they contend with one another about which bird each is preparing to strike, presuming that all will easily hit their mark."
"To liberality it belongs to be profuse of money on praiseworthy objects, to be generous in spending on a proper purpose, to be helpful and kind in disputed matters, and not to take from improper sources."
"In the cuttlefish and calamaries the eggs appear to be two, because the uterus is divided and appears double, but that of the octopus appears to be single."
"Since, then, if a man understands demonstratively, it must belong from necessity, it is clear that he must have his demonstration through a middle term that is necessary too; or else he will not understand either why or that it is necessary for that to be the case, but either he will think but not know it (if he believes to be necessary what is not necessary) or he will not even think it"
"Suppose that A belongs to every, and let it have been assumed that belongs to every."
"This is why they lay eggs in themselves, for if the egg were laid externally it would be destroyed, having no protection."
"In this latter sense attributes which are simple are all divisible."
"And the South East wind has a greater tendency to form rain, because it brings the air more directly from the sun and equally hot; but the South wind is rainy as it ceases to blow, because the first air that is brought comes cold from the sea, whereas the last air, which is very warm, is broug from the land."
"And simple it cannot be; for then it could not have touch, which is indispensable."
"But if the process is resolution into planes, the first difficulty is that the elements cannot all be generated out of one another."
"Then what is the cause determining that man comes to be from man, that wheat (instead of an olive) comes to be from wheat, either always or for the most part?"
"Of fallacies that are independent of language there are seven kinds: one that which depends upon accident;"
"If, on the other hand, its rest is constrained, what is hindering its motion?"
"Nor, then, will the now be the same; for the time may be divided at many points."
"Hence, not seeing this, but seeing the swallowing of the milt and the eggs, even the fishermen repeat the same simple tale, so much noised abroad, as does Herodotus the story teller, as if fish were conceived by the mother's swallowing the milt not considering that this is impossible."
"Or there is the method whereby Antiphon squared the circle."
"Again, our observations of the stars make it evident, not only that the earth is circular, but also that it is a circle of no great size."
"he maintains, simultaneously with this denial, that each thing once more comes to be out of the One."
"There must, therefore, be some one and the same thing,"
"If you have witnesses, and the other man has not, you will argue that probabilities cannot be put on their trial, and that we could do without the evidence of witnesses altogether if we need do no more than balance the pleas advanced on either side."
"Yet it has of course something natural about it; for different things are pleasant to different kinds of people, and some things are more pleasant to every one than chance objects."
"In Lacedaemon there was a choragus who led the chorus with a flute, and at Athens the instrument became so popular that most freemen could play upon it."
"In an accidental sense,.g., we say the just is musical, and the man is musical and the musical is a man, just as we say the musical builds, because the builder happens to be musical or the musical happens to be a builder; for here 'one thing is another' means 'one is an accident of another'."
"For there the fact that the matter is distinct from the form is more manifest than in flesh and the homoeomeries."
"For all the units become identical with species of good, and there is a great profusion of goods."
"The question might be asked, what we mean by saying that we must become just by doing just acts, and temperate by doing temperate acts; for if men do just and temperate acts, they are already just and temperate, exactly as,"
"For thirst occurs when the sovereign region of the body becomes dry."
"Since there is not movement either of substance or of relation or of activity and passivity, it remains that movement is in respect of quality and quantity and place; for each of these admits of contrariety."
"eg suppose he has said that memory is a persisting of knowledge."
"Scallops burrow for a time in the sand, like the murex."
"In all such creatures the internal organs are found under dissection to correspond to those of man."
"But though this is false, it does not follow that it is true that A belongs to every."
"But the distinction of actuality and potentiality applies differently to cases where the matter is not the same, in which cases the form also is not the same but different; eg the cause of man is the elements in man (viz."
"And he will consider how the result can be made most beautiful and most becoming rather than for how much it can be produced and how it can be produced most cheaply."
"Now if one part of the stretch must have been traversed before another part (this is clear, that in the earlier and in the later part of the time a different part of the stretch has been traversed; for as the time lengthens a different part of the motion will always be completed in it, whether it changes with uniform velocity or not; and whether the motion increases or diminishes or remains stationary"
"For we hear this kind of thing said about god."
"For if a morsel of food, fluid or solid, slips into it by accident, choking and much distress and violent fits of coughing ensue."
"the hand, the leg, or the elbow, both the bending motion and motion from place to place for the latter cannot take place either without the bending, and usually the supporting functions belong to these same bones."
"For this reason, whenever a wind egg is produced by any animal, the egg so forming has in it the parts of both sexes potentially, but has not the principle in question, so that it does not develop into a living creature, for this is introduced by the semen of the male."
"But Democritus dissented from all the other thinkers and maintained a theory peculiar to himself."
"It has been doubted whether it is or is not expedient to make any changes in the laws of a country, even if another law be better."
"Now if the one proposition is stated, we have only a sign, but if the other is stated as well, a deduction,"
"We infer that the Forms are not (M) causes."
"These last are a group on their own separate from the others, in that they use 'not man' as a name."
"But since the man who deliberates badly makes a mistake, while he who deliberates well does so correctly, excellence in deliberation is clearly a kind of correctness, but neither of knowledge nor of opinion; for there is no such thing as correctness of knowledge (since there is no such thing as error of knowledge), and correctness of opinion is truth; and at the same time everything that is an object of opinion is already determined."
"But it is necessary to prove both proposition and for we have used these alone without demonstrating them."
"These, then, are the subjects about which we shall deliberate and address the people."
"On another occasion when he was in need of money, he demanded contributions from them, saying that they should be repaid out of the revenues."
"For there may be a want of self discipline in states as well as in individuals."
"The questions I mean have practically been already assigned to their several branches."
"Some of these are crimson at first; but when black colour forms in them, they turn to a wine colour, and in the end they become a dark bluish hue when the crimson is finally mixed with a large quantity of pure black."
"It can only be, then, that it occupies less time, and thus it is necessary that the quicker will pass over an equal magnitude too in less time."
"And if he makes no judgement but thinks and does not think, indifferently, what difference will there be between him and the plants?"
"Furthermore, the axe works like a wedge; and a wedge, though small, can split large masses because it is made up of two levers working in opposite directions."
"suddenly taken away from the animal, to be scorched."
"Under the diaphragm on the right hand side lies the liver, and on the left hand side the spleen, alike in all animals that are provided with these organs in a natural and not a monstrous way; for in some quadrupeds these organs have been found in Dittmeyer excises 'It has three cavities. ."
"The objects the imitator represents are actions, with agents who are necessarily either good men or bad the diversities of human character being nearly always derivative from this primary distinction, since it is by badness and excellence men differ in character."
"These have a body of light weight, and four wings, two on either side, to support it."
"But this is impossible, so that it is false that A belongs to every."
"Now size is characteristic of the male, for the female is smaller than the male."
"How is it that great weights and masses can be split and violent pressure be exerted with a wedge, which is a small thing?"
"If in any of these respects there is a discrepancy, clearly they are not the same."
"And so with everything else."
"Next after the thorax and in front comes the stomach, and its root the navel."
"Hence some are wont to speak of wind eggs as not coming into being independently but as mere relics from a previous impregnation."
"But if it has no body or width or length, how could the One be unlimited?"
"Further (and this is the same question), why does the point moving along the side"
"But the palpable fact, on the contrary, is that the greater the quantity, the lighter the mass is and the quicker its upward movement; and, similarly, in the reverse movement from above downward, the small mass will move quicker and the large slower."
"For in the way an affirmation is opposed to a negation, for example 'he is sitting' '"
"But when the negative is particular and necessary, take the terms biped, moving, animal, animal being middle."
"poiousin ai aktines."
"Perfect friendship is the friendship of men who are good, and alike in excellence; for these wish well alike to each other qua good, and they are good in themselves."
"Why do shells and stones which are in the sea become round?"
"People always think well of speeches adapted to, and reflecting, their own character: and we can now see how to compose our speeches so as to adapt both them and ourselves to our audiences."
"It is evident from what has been said that what is of necessity is in actuality; so that, if the things which are eternal are prior, then also actuality is prior to capability."
"Again, the nobler thing is better than the less noble, since the noble is either what is pleasant or what is desirable in itself."
"There appears to be a lacuna in the text at this point."
"Next, however much there are Ideas and in particular an Idea of good, they are perhaps useless with a view to a good life and to action."
"Must is an instance of this, and the matter in boils when it becomes purulent, and tears when they become rheum, and so with the rest."
"All birds have a neck naturally extending from the body; and the purpose of this neck is the same as in such other animals as have one."
"In their second year they grow their horns for the first time, straight in shape, like pegs and on this account they are called pegs."
"Of the deductions in the last figure one only cannot be analysed into the first, viz."
"Is it because the stream of air which meets them is colder according as it is for a shorter time in contact with the body (as happens in the case of naked runners), and it is the cold which makes the eyes water?"
"No less skilfully contrived are the nails."
"But the lump of flesh, since it is not an animal, is always uniform; and that is why it does not weigh down the womb or make it inflamed."
"Hence, however true it may be that the heavens are due to spontaneity, it will still be true that intelligence and nature will be prior causes of this universe and of many things in it besides."
"We have no evidence as yet about thought or the power of reflexion; it seems to be a different kind of soul, differing as what is eternal from what is perishable; it alone is capable of being separated."
"For the defect on one side or the other is not manifest."
"At the end oethos an auton ou paidion tetokenai, all' auton paidion gegonenai, and en pleistais de phrontisi kai en elachistais elpisin."
"Where this tendency is absent, no introduction is wanted beyond a summary statement of your subject, to put a sort of head on the main body of your speech."
"Doctoring must start from the art, not lead to it."
"And this phenomenon is especially observable in man, in viviparous quadrupeds, and in birds; for in the case of man and the quadruped the offspring is smaller, and in the case of the bird, the egg."
"But if the conclusion is other than or A or, the deductions will be many, and unconnected with one another."
"Such, then, is the nature of a probability."
"Of all fishes the mullet is the most voracious and insatiable, and in consequence its belly is kept at full stretch; whenever it is not starving, it may be considered as out of condition."
"the tastes of the contraries are in a way opposed."
"For the moisture being already in a mass, the power of heat, when it approaches it, concocts it."
"It is hard, too, to see how a weaver or a carpenter will be benefited in regard to his own craft by knowing this 'good itself', or how the man who has viewed the Idea itself will be a better doctor or general thereby."
"Now the earth remains but the moisture surrounding it is made to evaporate by the sun's rays and the other heat from above, and rises."
"Now staying in the sea seems to make men, generally speaking, hungrier and opens the bowels; for the vapour given off by it is both hot and dry."
"Why is it that urine acquires a more unpleasant odour"
"For this reason, too, it is not a movement."
"The refutation is not genuine but spurious; for it consists in showing not that your opponent's premiss is not probable, but only in showing that it is not inevitably true."
"Actual sound is always of something in relation to something and in something; for it is generated by an impact."
"No, for a body which has no natural movement at all cannot be moved by constraint."
"The Libyan ostrich, indeed, is furnished with eyelashes."
"Again: to be beautiful, a living creature, and every whole made up of parts, must not only present a certain order in its arrangement of parts, but also be of a certain definite magnitude."
"Why does sneezing stop hiccuping?"
"So there will be a certain contrariety, ie a differentiating quality; and the other member of this contrariety, eg heat, will belong to Fire."
"so that one should not argue about geometry among non geometers for the man who argues badly will escape notice."
"Moreover, the bodies must have some movement, since the fact that they move is quite evident."
"are unprovided with teeth, with the exception of a few insects); the fly by a touch can draw blood with this organ, and the gnat can prick with it."
"And so men who have laboriously described to us either the nature of a single region or the plan of a single city or the dimensions of a river or the scenery of a mountain, as some before now have done, telling of Ossa or Nysa or the Corycian cave or giving us some other limited description, such men one should pity for their small mindedness in admiring ordinary things and making much of some quite insignificant spectacle."
", we shall have demolished the definition);"
"Moreover, in consequence of the close texture of the membrane, that portion of the sanguineous nutriment will alone filter into it which is of a greasy character; for this portion is composed of the finest particles; and it will be concocted by the heat of the part, and will be converted into suet or lard, and will not acquire a flesh like or sanguineous constitution."
"This is more remarkable and involves a greater difficulty; for the lungs cannot distribute the air to the lower parts during the actual process of its digestion."
"Reciprocation also is just; not, however, as the Pythagoreans maintained."
"especially if it depends on the best of all causes."
"For whenever if A is the case, of necessity is, and if this then, then if A is the case will be the case."
"For such time has no limit, while the action and the effect have."
"; believing that what is not itself moved cannot originate movement in another, they arrived at the view that soul belongs to the class of things in movement."
"Likewise, also, if destruction is dissolution of substance, then to be destroyed is for a substance to be dissolved, and destructively is in such a way as to dissolve; if again destructive is apt to dissolve the substance, then also destruction is dissolution of substance."
"Things are said to be other in species if they are of the same genus but are not subordinate the one to the other, or if, while being in the same genus they have a difference, or if they have a contrariety in their substance; and contraries are other than one another in species (either all contraries or those which are so called in the primary sense), and so are those things whose formulae differ in the infima species of the genus (e.g. man and horse are indivisible in genus, but their formulae are different), or which being in the same substance have a difference. '"
"Is it due to the fact that the air which meets them is cold?"
"As the liquid is converted into vapour or air the vessel which contains it is often burst because it does not contain room enough."
"Again, as the affairs of Greece are in the King, and generally events are in their primary motive agent."
"While in all other animals it is the lower jaw that is movable, in the river crocodile it is exceptionally the upper."
"That the beginning of movement is on the right is indicated by the fact that all men carry burdens on the left shoulder; in this way they set free the side which initiates movement and enable the side which bears the weight to be moved."
"Equity bids us be merciful to the weakness of human nature; to think less about the laws than about the man who framed them, and less about what he said than about what he meant; not to consider the actions of the accused so much as his choice, nor this or that detail so much as the whole story; to ask not what a man is now but what he has always or for the most part been."
"And since the equal is intermediate, the just will be an intermediate."
"Is it because the extraneous moisture is evaporated together with the heat, as happens in grapes?"
"And there is also a species of hare in what is named the Fig district, near Lake Bolbe, and elsewhere, which might be taken to have two livers owing to the length of the connecting ducts, similar to the structure in the lung of birds."
"It is the one thing that cannot be learnt from others; and it is also a sign of genius, since a good metaphor implies an intuitive perception of the similarity in dissimilars."
"Again, the woman emits into the area in front of the neck of the womb, where the man too emits when he has intercourse."
"But a whole argument of this sort is not a definition, so that even if it were demonstrated by the division, that does not make the definition a deduction."
"An eruption of wind from the earth is a blast caused by the emission of air from a deep hold or cleft; when it comes forth in a whirling mass it is called an earth storm."
"For then the result will be that they are both in motion and at rest, and moreover that they are objects both of sensation and of thought."
"Such, then, is the nature of things just, lawful, expedient, honourable, easy, practicable, and necessary."
"it is thrown off by the heat which flows into it."
"What, therefore, is the principle of life in animals?"
"Now we suppose that the heavens are of necessity impossible to destroy and to dissolve, whereas the result of the present argument would be to do away with this necessity."
"(But the jar and the wine in separation are not parts of a whole, though together they are.)"
"Of contradictory statements about a universal taken universally it is necessary for one or the other to be true or false; similarly if they are about particulars, eg Socrates is white Socrates is not white."
"The grass of Chalcis and almonds are most useful for making honey; for they say that a very large quantity is produced by them."
"There is a difference between inquiry and deliberation; for deliberation is a particular kind of inquiry."
"For when the lung rises up the breath streams in, and is again expelled when the lung collapses."
"Again, nature gives both the faculty and the organ to each individual at the same time, for it is better so."
"Why do some plants sprout when they are not in the earth, but either cut off or placed in store, lily stalks, for example, and garlic and onions?"
"Things have a nature which have a principle of this kind."
"Why do some people cough when they scrape their ears?"
"For nothing prevents the nonexplanatory one of the counterpredicated terms from sometimes being more familiar, so that the demonstration will occur through this.g."
"a Our next task is to study coming to be and passing away."
"Besides these there are others which are at a joini and whose purpose is locking together, eg the collar bone, which perhaps is named the 'key bone' from its functions."
"By this, then, we shall recognize both what we must substract from that which has more, and what we must add to that which has less; we must add to the latter that by which the intermediate exceeds it, and subtract from the greatest that by which it exceeds the intermediate."
"Therefore it is evident that one of the contraries is always privative; but it is enough if this is true of the first.e.,"
"And these four couples have attached themselves to the apparently simple bodies (Fire, Air, Water, and Earth) in a manner consonant with theory."
"Nor indeed is the irrational part praised, except in so far as it is capable of subserving or actually subserves the rational part."
"Now it is clear that the quicker will traverse the same magnitude in less time than this: let us say in the time."
"And of injustice the most common form is insult, another is confiscation of property."
"corresponding to the time, or, if the latter takes place without the former, one does not remember."
"That the colours of the rainbow are those we described and how the other colours come to appear in it will be clear from the following considerations."
"Similarly we must consider the antecedents of A itself; for if a term follows the primary antecedents, it will follow those also which are subordinate, but if it does not follow the former, it may yet follow the latter."
"For example let A stand for there being a single science, for contraries."
"For 'exist' has many senses."
"Precisely in the same way no part of a dead body, such I mean as its eye or its hand, is really an eye or a hand."
"For parts have different motions those in virtue of themselves, and those in virtue of the motion of the whole."
"In females then it encourages copulation to have the uterus low down, but in males to have the testes drawn up."
"For if animal is destroyed perception is destroyed, but there will be something perceptible, such as body, hot, sweet, bitter, and all the other perceptibles."
"The leaders are far larger and milder tempered than the others."
"If she endures them with patience and gentleness, she will rule her home with ease; otherwise, not so easily."
"Now both a line and a body have a middle, yet they are not odd; so that this will not be a definition of odd."
"Again if it is necessary that animal should exist, if man does, and that substance should exist, if animal does, it is necessary that substance should exist if man does; but as yet the conclusion has not been deduced; for the propositions are not in the shape we described."
"Forst Melissus says that, if anything is, it is eternal, since it is impossible that anything can come into being from nothing."
"The moisture is used up and the fruit makes the heat rise, and so the fruit will be bitter, and the stones in the fruit will be pyramidal in form on account of the upward attraction of the heat and the downward attraction of the cold and moisture which are of the same nature as sour water; and the moisture remains in the trunk of the tree, which consequently thickens, while its extremities are thin."
"Air, water, and the rest they distinguished by the relative size of the atom, assuming that its nature was a sort of seed bed for each and every element."
"We have already described the nature of that which is just."
"The act of blinking is performed by the heavy bodied birds by means of the membrane already mentioned, and not by this lower lid."
"A combination of harmony and rhythm alone is the means in flute playing and lyre playing, and any other arts there may be of the same description, eg imitative piping."
"As an example of this we have the lawgivers of the Cretans and the Spartans, and any others of the kind that there may have been."
"In the way proper to fellow citizens, indeed, it is possible to be the friend of many and yet not be obsequious but a genuinely good man; but one cannot have with many people the friendship based on excellence and on the character of our friends themselves, and we must be content if we find even a few such."
"They then seek a reason for its staying there; and some say, in the manner explained, that the reason is its size and flatness, others, with Empedocles, that the motion of the heavens, moving about it at a higher speed, prevents movement of the earth, as the water in a cup, when the cup is given a circular motion, though it is often underneath the bronze, is for this same reason prevented from moving with the downward movement which is natural to it.)"
"It makes no difference whether the conclusion is affirmative or negative; the method is the same in both cases."
"Again, some of the former class are in accordance with intention, others not, but both are in the class of things which are for the sake of something."
"There are also sea serpents, in shape to a great extent resembling their congeners of the land, with this exception that the head in their case is somewhat like the head of the conger; and there are several kinds of sea serpent, and they differ in colour; these animals are not found in very deep water."
"The reason why the water does not flow when the tube is closed is that the water on entering into the water clock drives the air forcibly out of it."
"so, too, are the pleasures; for to each activity there is a proper pleasure."
"Or, on the contrary, does what is include earth as well as fire, whereas what is not is matter the matter of earth and fire alike?"
"For the old man cannot see the object; he therefore removes the object at which he is looking to the point at which the vision of his Omitting the final sentence."
"Further, all say that justice and injustice are specially exhibited towards friends; the same man seems both good and a friend, and friendship seems a sort of moral habit; and if one wishes to make men not wrong one another, one shou make them friends, for genuine friends do not act unjustly."
"Further, in the case of sensible things both these consequences and others still more absurd follow."
"I mean by the last phrase that it follows because of them, and by this, that no further term is required from without in order to make the consequence necessary."
"because, in common with other animals and with plants, mankind have a natural desire to leave behind them an image of themselves), and of natural ruler and subject, that both may be preserved."
"Men go grey on the temples first, because the back of the head is empty of moisture owing to its containing no brain, and the fontanelle has a great deal of moisture, a large quantity not being liable to decay; the hair on the temples, however, has neither so little that it can concoct it nor so much that it cannot decay, for this region of the head being between the two extremes is exempt from both states."
"(It is that which underlies and is healthy or sick, whether it is moisture or blood, that is one and the same.)"
"It is true that sanguineous animals also invariably have a liver."
"(The meaning of 'predicated of none' has also been defined.)"
"That if anything is possible to inferior, weaker, and stupider people, it is more so for their opposites; thus Isocrates said that it would be a strange thing if he could not discover a thing that Euthynus had found out."
"We shall implant a sentiment of hostility in those whom we are seeking to dissuade by showing that either they themselves, or those for whom they care, have received undeserved illtreatment at the hands of the other party or their friends."
"Just as the universal part of mathematics deals not with objects which exist separately, apart from magnitudes and from numbers, but with magnitudes and numbers, not however qua such as to have magnitude or to be divisible, clearly it is possible that there should also be both formulae and demonstrations about sensible magnitudes, not however qua sensible but"
"First, let us consider generally which shape is primary among planes and solids alike."
"Therefore to the question whether it is possible to pass through an infinite number of units either of time or of distance we must reply that in a sense it is and in a sense it is not."
"In the other direction the windpipe extends to the interval between the lungs, and hereupon bifurcates into each of the two divisions of the lung; for the lung in all animals possessed of the organ has a tendency to be double."
"But if number is finite, how far does it go?"
"For as a rule it is of actual things already existing that we acquire knowledge; in few cases, if any, could one find knowledge coming into existence at the same time as what is knowable."
"In the case of refutations whose reasoning depends on some addition, look and see if upon its subtraction the impossibility follows none the less; and then the answerer should point this out, and say that he granted the addition not See."
"more unlike, we oppose rather the latter to courage; for things that are further from the intermediate are thought more contrary to it."
"But the bad man also is called clever; for instance, Mentor was thought to be clever, but he was not wise."
"A shower is said to be more violent in proportion as the water comes down in a body, and this happens when I the condensation takes place quickly though this is just the opposite of what Anaxagoras says."
"Concerning contracts argument can be so far employed as to increase or diminish their importance and their credibility; we shall try to increase both if they tell in our favour, and to diminish both if they tell in favour of our opponent."
"Moreover, it appears, it grows large and beautiful, so that it easily overcomes the rest."
"For the South East wind rises from the dawn (and the region is warm), while the West wind is situated towards the evening."
"Secondly amplification and minimization are necessarily useful in all kinds of oratory, but most use is made of them in eulogy and vituperation."
"And A and may belong to the same thing, but and cannot."
"One has been already mentioned differences of population; for the popular element may consist of farmers, or of artisans, or of labourers, and if the first of these is added to the second, or the third to the two others, not only does the democracy become better or worse, but its very nature is changed."
"Are those who hesitate in too great a hurry because of the heat that is in them, and so they stumble and stop?"
"Again, no one contends that he who votes for a simple acquittal or condemnation perjures himself, if the indictment has been laid in an unqualified form; and this is just, for the judge who acquits does not decide that the defendant owes nothing, but that he does not owe the twenty minae."
"In itself an argument is liable to five kinds of criticism."
"Also, if an attribute described in terms of a privation is a property of the privation, then also the attribute that is described in terms of the possession will be a property of the possession."
"For if is predicated of, and of, then is necessarily predicated of."
"therefore it is for this reason that one always desires to live, because one always desires to know; and this is because he himself wishes to be the object known."
"The story is that while one of them was away from home"
"which is found with us as soon as we are born, or that which comes to us if growth is allowed to proceed regularly, eg grey hair, old age, and so on."
"For Homer pays no honour either to affection or to fear where modesty is absent."
"For we assumed that what is praiseworthy is either the excellence or its work, and these are not activities, but have activities."
"And the old philosophers also in effect testify to this; for it was of substance that they sought the principles and elements and causes."
"is the three together that make it one without qualification for that in which the motion takes place (the species)"
"The ship then moves because, as the blade presses against the sea, the handle of the oar, which is inside the ship, advances forward, and the ship, being firmly attached to the thole pin, advances with it in the same direction as the handle of the oar."
"For the same things are best both for individuals and for states, and these are the things which the legislator ought to implant in the minds of his citizens."
"The blood of these discharges under disease turns into flux."
"For in the first place they have naturally but a small amount of blood; and secondly the only hollow fish spine is that of the backbone."
"And some women, like the females of other animals for example, mares and cows have a strong tendency to produce offspring resembling their parents, as was the case with the Pharsalian mare called Honest Wife."
"For by the latter we do not know what is future or past, but what is present only."
"The river Scamander also has the reputation of making lambs yellow, and that is the reason, they say, why Homer designates it the Yellow River"
"And even if one circular motion is the contrary of another, one of the two would be pointless; for that which moves in a circle, at whatever point it begins, must necessarily pass through all the contrary places alike."
"First of all, then, we must see that every science and capacity has an end, and that too a good one; for no science or capacity exists for the sake of evil."
"The centre will also have been displaced; for it moves in a contrary direction to, the end of the oar in the sea, and in the same direction as, the end in the ship, and A changes its position to."
"When they attack, nothing succeeds in thinning them down except the rain; and then they disappear rapidly."
"These are the theories of others about thunder and lightning: some maintaining that lightning is a reflection, the others that lightning is fire shining through the cloud and thunder its extinction, the fire not being generated in each case but existing beforehand."
"Now since the low note is soft and tranquil, and the high note full of movement, of the notes which maintain the same melody the lower would rather be softer in the same melody; for melody in itself, as has been shown, is soft."
"The chalcis, however, spawns in deep water in dense shoals of fish; and the so called tilon spawns near to beaches in sheltered spots in shoals likewise."
"And this is the relation of universal knowledge to particular."
"Again, if knowledge is a belief, then also the object of knowledge is an object of belief; and if sight is a perception, then also the object of sight is an object of perception."
"But when the many administer the state for the common interest, the government is called by the generic name a constitution."
"But the alteration of that which undergoes alteration is also caused by the above mentioned characteristics, which are affections of some underlying quality."
"that from which it generates; even if these be one, still they must be distinct in form and their essence must be different; and in those animals that have these powers separate in two sexes the body and nature of the active and the passive sex must also differ."
"This can be illustrated from musical instruments; for, all other conditions being the same, it is the thinner strings that give shriller sounds."
"From this, then, it is evident that definition and deduction are not the same, and that deduction and definition are not of the same thing; and in addition, that definition neither demonstrates nor proves anything, and that you can become aware of what a thing is neither by definition nor by demonstration."
"Of the membranes those are the stoutest and strongest which invest the heart and the brain; as is but consistent with reason."
"Change in general is contrary to staying the same."
"the underlying subject (e.g. moon or earth or sun or triangle) and by one of the things eclipse, equality, inequality, whether it is in the middle or not."
"In none is it so small or so indistinct as in the octopus."
"The opposite also occurs, as happened in the cases of Antipheron of Oreus and others suffering from mental derangement; for they were accustomed to speak of their images as facts of their past experience, and as if remembering them."
"The single harmony produced by all the heavenly bodies singing and dancing together springs from one source and ends by achieving one purpose, and has rightly bestowed the name not of 'disordered' but of 'ordered universe' upon the whole."
"And that which is capable of not being may possibly not be; and that which may possibly not be is perishable, either without qualification, or in the precise sense in which it is said that it possibly may not be, ie either in respect of place or quantity or quality; 'without qualification' means 'in substance'."
"It contracts and expands without constraint, and so is able to pull and to thrust from one and the same cause, exhibiting weight compared with the fiery element, and lightness by comparison with the opposites of fire."
"Everything, therefore, that comes to be by a natural process is either a contrary or a product of contraries."
"So it is clear in how many ways and in what figures a deduction can be made by means of propositions which are opposed."
"ancestral customs and laws and also the written law, to be truthful in matters of importance, to observe one's agreements."
"It is inevitable, too, that generation of one out of another should come to a stop, since a finite quantum cannot contain an infinity of finite quanta."
"Let A be raven, intelligent, and man."
"Other birds have no crop, but instead of it a gullet wide and roomy, either all the way or in the part leading to the stomach, as with the daw, the raven, and the carrion crow."
"Sharp and flat are here metaphors, transferred from their proper sphere, viz."
"We must attribute to such substances the possession of opposite properties in a greater or less degree."
"A single young one is of course a first born, and so such animals as only produce a single young one must have these first breasts, and the first breasts are those under the armpits."
"But let us take them individually and speak of them in order; and first let us speak of bravery."
"since if the latter perished they might be replaced, But since my father and mother in their graves Lie dead, no brother can be born to me."
"But why are their teeth white?"
"As in the Topics, therefore, so in this work, we must distinguish, in dealing with the enthymemes, the kinds and the commonplaces on which they are to be founded."
"Heat causes growth, and fits the food stuff for alimentation; it attracts that which is light, while the salt and bitter it rejects because of their heaviness."
"Any one who intends to frame questions must, first of all, select the ground from which he should make his attack; secondly, he must frame them and arrange them one by one to himself; thirdly and lastly, he must proceed actually to put them to the other party."
"This happened in the case of Ergophilus: though the people were more irritated against him than against Callisthenes, they acquitted him because they had condemned Callisthenes to death the day before."
"For capacity, and what is capable or productive of anything, is always desirable for the sake of something else."
"For if the gods have any care for human affairs, as they are thought to have, it would be reasonable both that they should delight in that which was best and most akin to them (i.e. intellect) and that they should reward those who love and honour this most, as caring for the things that are dear to them and acting both rightly and nobly."
"It is thus that the singing crickets too produce their song; they possess greater warmth and are indented at the waist, but the songless variety have no fissure there."
"There are, I say, these two kinds of body, and it is not the case, as some maintain, that all bodies have weight."
"As regards our peroration we shall remind our hearers of what has been said by a summary repetition of the facts; while we shall remind them of our past deeds by reference to our present deeds, when we are undertaking actions identical with, or similar to, former actions."
"Of water birds such as are web footed live actually on the water, while such as are split footed live by the edge of it and water birds that are not carnivorous live on water plants, but most of them live on fish, like the heron and the spoonbill that frequent the banks of lakes and rivers; and the spoonbill is smaller than the common heron, and has a long flat bill."
"This last point, too, would seem to apply to benefactors."
"Similarly the relative good and the good which corresponds to other categories is common to all, and it does not belong to any capacity or science to speak of what is good in each at a given time, nor, we may add,"
"And the matter of each thing, and therefore of substance, must be that which is potentially of the nature in question; but the relative is neither potentially nor actually substance."
"For no function of man has so much permanence as excellent activities (these are thought to be more durable even than knowledge), and of these themselves the most valuable are more durable because those who are blessed spend their life most readily and most continuously in these; for this seems to be the reason why we do not forget them."
"Rennet then consists of milk with an admixture of fire, which comes from the natural heat of the animal, as the milk is concocted."
"It must, then, be the Idea of an Idea since it is prior to an Idea, and it must have come into being before it."
"The same reasoning holds if A be sweet and white."
"Or are the two conditions really very different?"
"This is why changes of the former kind are not reversible, the boy does not come from the man (for what comes to be from the process of coming to be"
"Again, they have the decision of great causes, although they are quite ordinary men, and therefore they should not determine them merely on their own judgement, but according to written rules, and to the laws."
"For each of the two parts must be in a different way."
"The contrary is the case with pain; for he does not avoid the excess of it, he avoids it altogether; for the alternative to excess of pleasure is not pain, except to the man who pursues this excess."
"Therefore it followed for them, almost by the same argument, that there must be Ideas of all things that are spoken of universally, and it was almost as if a man wished to count certain things, and while they were few thought he would not be able to count them, but made them more and then counted them; for the Forms are almost more numerous than the groups of sensible things, yet it was in seeking the causes of sensible things that they proceeded from these to the Forms."
"may be illustrated thus."
"Of creatures that live in water many kinds of fishes are gregarious, such as the so called migrants, the tunny, the pelamys, and the bonito."
"In those animals that have cotyledons in the womb the cotyledons grow less as the embryo grows bigger, and at length they disappear altogether."
"But it is not in this way that nature is related to nature."
"None of them are stable; for none of them have been discovered to be always visible in a fixed position."
"Now they say that it alone is not liable to rust, but that it is not very plentiful."
"Therefore wish is voluntary."
"For tillage spoils them by trying to train them; for they are engendered from corruption."
"Why is it that children, who have a hot temperament, are not fond of wine, although the Scythians and all who are courageous are fond of wine because they have a hot temperament?"
"Others have two fins only, for example conger eels and eels and a kind of mullet which breeds in the lake of Siphae."
"Why is it that, though air is denser than light, it can pass through solids?"
"The proofs from which it can be argued that the semen comes from each and every part of the bo may be reduced to four."
"Similarly there are three ways in which words can be put together: firstly, you can end one syllable with a vowel and begin the next with a vowel; secondly, you can begin a word with a consonant and end the previous word with a consonant; thirdly, you can put consonants and vowels in juxtaposition."
"This then must conclude our discussion of the several organs of sense perception."
"Some fruits are made up of a fleshy and a bony substance and a seed, I plums for example; others, cucumbers for instance, are made up of a fleshy substance and seeds, others of moisture and seeds like the pomegranate."
"If it thunders while a hen bird is brooding, the eggs get addled."
"that which causes alteration"
"For if neither A belongs to any of the C's nor to any of the B's, and each has been assumed the other way about, both will be false."
"The Egyptian hippopotamus has a mane like a horse, is cloven footed like an ox, and is snub nosed."
"In all these examples the things have the effect of being active because they are made into living beings; shameless behaviour and fury"
"this although movement is productive of heat?"
"An objection to it is that not being always follows what is coming to be (for what is coming to be is not) and is not convertible with it (for what is not is not always coming to be), but nevertheless not being is not the genus of coming to be; for not being has not any species at all."
"Again let the propositions be affirmative, and let the universality apply as before, ie let belong to every and to some."
"But if, as we say, one element is matter and another is form, and one is potentially and the other actually, the question will no longer be thought a difficulty."
"Nor, of course, does it make any difference whether any people made the contradictory statements or not."
"ment is an excess, there will be an excessive excess."
"The mistake lies in the beginning as the proverb says 'Well begun is half done'; so an error at the beginning, though quite small, bears the same ratio to the errors in the other parts."
"This, then, is the most certain of all principles, since it answers to the definition given above."
"For if nothing in the chain,C,D is predicated of anything in the chain,E,F, and A is in the whole (which is in the same chain as it), it is evident that will not be in H; for otherwise the chains will overlap."
"eg to rule all mankind or to be immortal, but no one chooses such things unless ignorant of the impossibility, nor does he even choose what is possible, generally, if he does not think it in his power to do or to abstain from doing it."
"That is why people wonder whether it is by intelligence or by some other faculty that these creatures work, spiders, ants, and the like."
"shedding leaves follows together with the vine and exceeds it; and with the fig, and exceeds it but not all of them, but it is equal."
"For there must of necessity be some means or other of tempering the heat of the body; and in sanguineous animals, as they are of an especially hot nature, the cooling agency must be external, whereas in the bloodless kinds the innate spirit is sufficient of itself for the purpose."
"Moreover, that is more desirable in whose absence it is less blameworthy for people to be vexed; and that is more desirable in whose absence it is more blameworthy for a man not to be vexed."
"In it are numerous and close packed vessels, which run from the intestines to the great vessel and to the aorta."
"The mare attains her full length and height at five years old, the stallion at six; in another six years the animal reaches its full bulk, and goes on improving until it is twenty years old."
"The position of the blow hole is an indication of this, for it leads to none of the organs which are charged with blood, but lies before the brain."
"For he will say, and prove by the division as he thinks, that everything is either mortal or immortal."
"But the sound of the lyre, since it is not produced by breath or is less perceptible than the sound of the flute, mingles less well with the voice and, causing a contrast in the perception, has a less pleasing effect, as has been said of savours."
"East winds are warmer than west winds because the sun shines on the east longer, whereas it leaves the west sooner and reaches it later."
"Why is a very long object more difficult to carry on the shoulder, even if one carries it in the middle, than a shorter object of the same weight?"
"Besides, when men hear imitations, even apart from the rhythms and tunes themselves, their feelings move in sympathy."
"Clearly, then, in the first place, if what is said is not clear, he ought not to hesitate to say that he does not understand it; for often people encounter some difficulty from assenting to questions that are not clearly put."
"We have now defined the unjust and the just."
"Some animals have two breasts, but situated near the thighs, and teats, likewise two in number, as the sheep; others have four teats, as the cow."
"Anaxagoras again made both his homogeneous substances and his contraries infinite, whereas Empedocles posits only the so called elements."
"Those who treat the unequal as one thing, and the dyad as an indefinite compound of great and small, say what is very far from being probable or possible."
"For he will no longer strictly know that it is more beautiful than an inferior thing, since it may so happen that there is nothing inferior to it.)"
"Likewise if both the relations are negative, if indicates that it does not belong, and that it possibly belongs to none."
"And the offspring is produced indeed of a certain quality, but also as a certain 'this', and this latter is the substance."
"Now the voice is a movement, and those who use more force speak louder; and so, since they have to force the hindrance out of the way, those who hesitate in their speech must necessarily speak louder."
"But this requires the heart to be of greater magnitude, so that it is only in the largest hearts that there are three cavities."
"Why do children hesitate more in their speech than grown men?"
"If, therefore, these are contraries, so too elsewhere are the beliefs of the contradiction."
"Indeed, there is nothing which the legislator should be more careful to drive away than indecency of speech; for the light utterance of shameful words leads soon to shameful actions."
"If, moreover, he cannot even attempt a counter proof that it is not true, far more likely is he to be thought ill tempered."
"Well, let be such that it itself no longer belongs to anything else and belongs to it primitively"
"Therefore an intermediate is impossible between things which are not opposite; for then there would be change which was not from one opposite towards the other."
"After the hinds have become pregnant, the males all segregate one by one, and in consequence of the violence of their sexual passions they keep each one to himself and dig a hole in the ground; they smell rank, like goats, and their foreheads from getting wetted become black."
"Hence the class of sheep have such hairs (for wool is a multitude of hairs)."
"Out of these two relationships the first thing to arise is the family, and Hesiod is right when he says, First house and wife and an ox for the plough, for the ox is the poor man's slave."
"Things that are by their own nature called relative are called so sometimes in these senses, sometimes because the classes that include them are of this sort, eg medicine is thought to be relative because its genus, knowledge, is thought to be relative."
"It is in virtue of such a similarity that Birds, Fishes, Cephalopoda, and Testacea have been made to form each a separate class."
"The outlet of the excretion is in sea creatur on one side; for there is a passage whereby the excretion passes out."
"The purple murices gather together to some one place in the spring time, and deposit the so called 'honey comb'."
"To come from something means to come from something as from matter, and this in two senses, either in respect of the highest genus or in respect of the lowest species, eg in a sense all things that can be melted come from water, but in a sense the statue comes from bronze."
"But these differentiae will not be the primary contraries; otherwise every colour would be either white or black."
"Irony is to say something and pretend that you are not saying it, or else to call things by the names of their contraries."
"It is plain, too, that the infinite cannot be an actual thing and a substance and principle."
"The chief considerations that might be thought to indicate that motion may exist though at one time it had not existed at all are the following: First, it may be said that no change is eternal; for the nature of all change is such that it proceeds from something to something, so that every change must be bounded by the contraries that mark its course, and no motion can go on to infinity."
"We seek, whenever we seek the fact or if it is simpliciter, whether there is or is not a middle term for it; and whenever we become aware of either the fact or if it is either partially or simpliciter and again seek the reason why or what it is, then we seek what the middle term is."
"Whether, then, a man defines a thing correctly or incorrectly you should examine on these and similar lines."
"You will discover what is just in the judgement of men of repute by a consideration such as the following: 'Not only do we hate and do harm to our enemies, but the Athenians also and the Lacedaemonians judge that it is just to punish their enemies'."
"For wisdom is an excellence and not a species of knowledge, but another kind of cognition. ."
"Why is it that those who are ill or in pain or angry become more active under the influence of cold?"
"For those who wish to get clear of difficulties it is advantageous to state the difficulties well; for the subsequent free play of thought implies the solution of the previous difficulties, and it is not possible to untie a knot which one does not know."
"It is ridiculous to say they are the same because they are the same as themselves for in this way"
"On the basis of this assessment they each contributed the amount enjoined."
"Speaking generally, one ought to be on the look out for any discrepancy anywhere in any sort of predicate of each term, and in the things of which they are predicated."
"But as a result of hearing our hair stands on end for fear, not of the actual sounds, but of the anticipation which they arouse; for it is an anticipation of grievous ill."
"but they are of the same number as the holes in."
"It is, to state the matter generally, an irrational notion that the eye should see in virtue of something issuing from it; that the visual ray should extend itself all the way to the stars, or else go out merely to a certain point, and there coalesce, as some say, with rays which proceed from the object."
"For all naturally take delight in these objects and conceive appetites for them, and neither are nor are called profligate; for they neither exceed by rejoicing more than is right when they get them, nor by feeling greater pain than they ought when they miss them; nor are they insensible, for they are not deficient in the feeling of joy or pain, but rather in excess."
"(The universal attributes are common; for we call universal those which belong to more than one subject.)"
"The same criticism may be made about the Cretan, which has been already made about the Lacedaemonian affairs."
"For the argument may contain many falsehoods, eg suppose someone assumes that he who sits, writes and that Socrates is sitting; for from these it follows that Socrates is writing."
"Everything then exists for a final cause, and all those things which are included in the definition of each animal, or which either are for the sake of some end or are ends in themselves, come into being both through this cause and the rest."
"Necessarily, then, movements also will be either simple or in some sort compound simple in the case of the simple bodies, compound in that of the composite and"
"As for dreams which involve not such beginnings as we have here described, but such as are extravagant in times, or places, or magnitudes; or those involving beginnings which are not extravagant in any of these respects, while yet the persons who see the dream do not have matters in their own hands: unless the foresight which such dreams give is the result of pure coincidence, the following would be a better explanation of it than that proposed by Democritus, who alleges phantoms and emanations as its cause."
"Thus since the humours throughout the body are expelled by these two methods and it becomes cool, hangovers naturally vanish; for wine is moist and hot."
"Nor is the saying that man is of the animal kingdom a phrase with a number of uses; for a phrase does not have a number of uses merely if we express it elliptically; for we express 'Give me the Iliad' by quoting half a line of it, eg 'Give me 'Sing, goddess, of the wrath. .''"
"Such a community can only be established among those who live in the same place and intermarry."
"No, there must be both good qualities together, as in 'it is fitting to die when you are not fit for death'."
"when a reasonable explanation is given of why the false view appears true, this tends to produce belief in the true view"
"But, although it may be difficult in theory to know what is just and equal, the practical difficulty of inducing those to forbear who can, if they like, encroach, is far greater, for the weaker are always asking for equality and justice, but the stronger care for none of these things."
"Instead of that, they talk as if one were to say that the semen comes from the shoes; for, generally speaking, if a son is like his father, the shoes he wears are like his father's shoes."
"Whenever of two things it seems that if the one is true the other is true of necessity, whereas, if the other is true, the first is not true of necessity, one should, if asked which of them is true, grant the smaller one; for the larger the number of premisses, the harder it is to deduce a conclusion from them."
"Again, how is one to know what all things are made of, and how is this to be made evident?"
"For if all things come into being, then nothing can pre exist; whilst if some things were ever and others are added, that which is must have become more and greater, and that by which it is more and greater must have arisen out of nothing; for the more is not originally existent in the less, nor the greater in the smaller."
"One thing, then, will have the power of being and of not being, and thus be intermediate between the other two."
"Similarly, language also is one of the discrete quantities (that language is a quantity is evident, since it is measured by long and short syllables; I mean here language that is spoken)."
"why do proportionals alternate?"
"No statement, in fact, or belief is changed at all by anything."
"The people of Lampsacus, expecting a large fleet of triremes to come against them, ordered the dealers to sell a medimnus of barley meal, of which the market price was four drachmae, at six drachmae, and a chous of oil, the price of which was three drachmae, at four drachmae and a half, and likewise wine and the other commodities."
"And if is not wholly false but in part only, even so that conclusion may be true."
"Further, with those who slight us before five classes of people: namely, our rivals, those whom we admire, those whom we wish to admire us, those for whom we feel reverence, those who feel reverence for us: if anyone slights us before such persons, we feel particularly angry."
"For unless a part of the body is fat, the heat will not melt it properly, nor will it do so if the part is fat but does not co operate in the sexual act, as is the case with the stomach."
"I The kindly Earth in its broad bosomed moulds"
"For instance, it has happened that the bronze of a shield has been melted while the woodwork remained intact because its texture was so loose that the wind filtered through without affecting it."
"Just as the power of self nutrition can be separated from touch and sensation generally, so touch can be separated from all other forms of sense."
"It remains therefore that both functions should be entrusted by the ideal constitution to the same persons, not, however, at the same time, but in the order prescribed by nature, who has given to young men strength and to older men wisdom."
"This commonplace rule has been stated before in dealing with the sequence of contraries; for all we are claiming now is that the contrary follows the contrary."
"Of hair coated quadrupeds some are hairy all over the body, as the pig, the bear, and the dog; others are especially hairy on the neck and"
"That soul is a harmony in the sense of the composition of the parts of the body is a view easily refutable; for there are many and various compoundings of the parts; of what is thought or the sensitive or the appetitive faculty"
"The view of Plato, then, who held that plants have sensation and desire was remarkable, but not unsound; but Anaxagoras and Democritus and Empedocles declared that they possessed intellect and intelligence."
"Democritus has expressed himself more ingeniously than the rest on the grounds for ascribing each of these two characters to soul; soul and thought are, he says, one and the same thing, and this thing must be one of the primary and indivisible bodies, and its power of originating movement must be due to its fineness of grain and the shape of its atoms; he says that of all the shapes the spherical is the most mobile, and that this is the shape of the particles of both fire and thought."
"But hissing is really boiling on a small scale; for when that which is brought into contact with moisture and is in process of being extinguished gets the better of it, then it boils and makes the noise in question."
"For as he who is learning geometry, though he may know other things before, knows none of the things with which the science deals and about which he is to learn, so is it in all other cases."
"And if those which are badly articulated are short lived, clearly those that are well articulated must be the opposite."
"For we say both of that which sees potentially and of that which sees actually, that it is seeing, and both of that which can use knowledge and of that which is using it, that it knows, and both of that to which rest is already present and of that which can rest, that it rests."
"This is why the animal remains in the uterus, not, as Democritus says, that the parts of the embryo may be moulded in conformity with those of the mother."
"One might perhaps, following this up, go so far as to say that even the current opinion that one sees and hears simultaneously is due merely to the fact that the intervals of time escape observation."
"Knowledge and sensation are divided to correspond with the realities, potential knowledge and sensation answering to potentialities, actual knowledge and sensation to actualities."
"Similarly in the case of courage and cowardice, and so on always with the rest of the excellences."
"All those animals which have no testes are deficient in this part, as has been said, not because it is better to be so but simply because of necessity, and secondly because it is necessary that their copulation should be speedy."
"Let A be the head, the line of the chest, the thigh, and the lower leg."
"Further, no one has even tried to maintain different principles; they maintain the same principles for all things."
"Is it because fatigue is caused by the crushing and pressure and weariness of the bones, and this can be caused either by some external or by some internal agency, and in the latter case from one of two causes, either because the flesh overreaches its own strength, or because one bodily constituent mingles in a large quantity with the rest of the body and does not keep to its proper place, as happens with the excretions?"
"There are two others, one called the heledone, which differs in the length of its legs and in having one row of suckers all the rest of the molluscs having two, and the other called the bolitaina or the ozolis."
"For obviously they do not think these to be open questions; no one, at least, if when he is in Libya he fancies one night that he is in Athens, straightway starts for the Odeum."
"Clearly then we must suppose the opposite."
"Therefore if the same number had belonged to certain things, these would have been the same as one another, since they would have had the same form of number; eg sun and moon would have been the same."
"For no single element, but only composite substance, constitutes nutriment for animals."
"For, as I said, this arrangement is fairer to all, and any action familiarized by repetition is better and sooner performed."
"For drunkenness takes place in the region of the head."
"which some believe that the semen comes from all the body."
"Further, since the matter exists, because it is ungenerated, it is a fortiori reasonable that the substance, that which the matter is at any time coming to be, should exist; for if neither substance nor matter is, nothing will be at all."
"Since then one or other of these two parts must be the central source, and since it is not the liver which is such, it follows of necessity that it is the heart which is the source of the blood."
"are they included one in the other; for neither is acting making nor is making acting."
"Things that are not only alive but are animals have both a front and a back, because they all have sense, and front and back are distinguished by reference to sense."
"It is no new or recent discovery of political philosophers that the state ought to be divided into classes, and that the warriors should be separated from the farmers."
"If then of every single thing either the affirmation or the negation is true if it is not a negation clearly it must in a sense be an affirmation."
"If then, as we said, the view already stated of the first motion is a possible one, it is not only more appropriate so to conceive of its eternity, but also on this hypothesis alone are we able to advance a theory consistent with our premonitions of divinity."
"Young women conceive readily, but, having conceived, their labour in childbed is apt to be difficult."
"For water is of all liquids the thinnest, thinner even than oil itself, though oil, owing to its viscosity, is more ductile than water, the latter being uncohesive in its particles; whence water is more difficult than oil to hold in the hand."
"It appears therefore that such events do not happen at random."
"We have distinguished elsewhere what sort of things are the same or other in genus."
"One form, then, of the failure to work through more familiar terms is the exhibition of the prior through the posterior, as we remarked before."
"Of plants which grow in dry places, some grow on mountains, others in the plain; some plants grow and flourish in the most arid districts, as, for example, in the land of the Ethiopians which is called Zara, and increase there better than anywhere else."
"For man generates man and so too, in general, with all things which cause movement by being themselves moved; and such as are not of this kind are no longer inside the province of natural science, for they cause motion not by possessing motion or a source of motion in themselves, but being themselves incapable of motion."
"ascertain what is life in its active sense and as end."
"At the moment of respiration they do not take in food, for otherwise suffocation results owing to the food, whether liquid or dry, slipping in through the windpipe and lying on the lung."
"For there are some who say that the raven and the ibis unite at the mouth, and among quadrupeds that the weasel brings forth its young by the mouth; so say Anaxagoras and some of the other natural scientists, speaking too superficially and without consideration."
"Such, then, is the nature of examples."
"But if not all that appears to us is false, and some beliefs even of objects of sense are correct, either one ought to demonstrate the nature of such a correct belief and then adopt it, or else demonstrate and adopt those which appear most likely to be correct; and these must always be more firm than the conclusions which are apt to follow from the arguments of Melissus."
"Accordingly, when they have not been mixed, the actualized perceptions which perceive them will be two; but in one and the same faculty the perception actualized at any single moment is necessarily one, only one stimulation or exertion of a single faculty being possible at a single instant, and in the case supposed here the faculty is one."
"(for then, if compelled to choose, one will be more inclined to think it many)."
"Also those who have themselves wronged others, either often, or in the same way as they are now being wronged themselves for it"
"The meaning of this is plain."
"With the crow also the female alone broods, and broods throughout the whole period; the male bird supports the female, bringing her food and feeding her."
"Therefore all animals whose nostrils are long, as the Laconian hounds, are keen Omitting kai eispnoen."
"As a matter of fact, one can prove that the three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles quite as well without the immortality of the soul."
"They fly badly because of their weight; for their body is heavy, and that is why the bird always screams while flying for the labour is severe."
"But that judges of important causes should hold office for life is a disputable thing, for the mind grows old as well as the body."
"In order to produce the effect of genuine reasoning by our form of wording it is useful to summarize the results of a number of previous reasonings:"
"The former can live after their heads are cut off, for they can live longer without breathing."
"But both are opposed to the mean, excess and defect."
"With their order I mean the movement of each, as involving the priority of some and the posteriority of others, and their distances from each other astronomy may be left to deal, since the astronomical discussion is adequate."
"Do my opponents insist that you, the judges, must abide by the oath you have sworn, and yet will not abide by their own oaths?'"
"The cold, therefore, is caused by the departure of the heat, and the thirst by the departure of the moisture, from the upper parts of the body."
"Further, when they discharge the water they must emit their breath by the mouth or the gills, and the result will be that they will breathe in and breathe out at the same time, for it is at that moment that respiration is said to occur."
"Suppose that A belongs to no, and to some C: the conclusion is."
"one might as well warp a carpenter's rule before using it."
"Someone will ask whether, if what we are saying is true, excellence will not be required also in the artisans, for they often fail in their work through the lack of self control."
"The majority of birds other than birds of prey, as has been said, also act in this manner, and after feeding their young take no further care of them; but the crow is an exception."
"It is clear from this that it is not determined whether the parts of a plant are really parts or not."
"Thus fire, they say, is the lightest of things just for this reason that it has the most void."
"Besides these, place, void, and time are thought to be necessary conditions of motion."
", we must not say that each is of a certain quality because it becomes so, rather that they become so and"
"It is clear from this statement, then, in how many ways numbers may be described, and that all the ways have been mentioned; and all are impossible, but some perhaps more than others."
"or base deeds he has done, to accuse or defend him for his just or unjust treatment of others, or to advise him about what is or is not to his interest."
"Moreover, even though both are used in the same relation, eg in relation to medical treatment (for a man may exhibit both daring and right reasoning in respect of medical treatment), still a man who has this together with that is not yet courageous."
"From this definition of happiness it follows that its constituent parts are: good birth, plenty of friends, good friends, wealth, good children, plenty of children, a happy old age, also such bodily excellences as health, beauty, strength, large stature, athletic powers, together with fame, honour, good luck, and excellence."
"the heart holds the same position as in other animals; and the reason has been given why it appears not to a do so."
"For it is in accordance with a contrariety a contrariety, moreover, of tangible qualities that the primary bodies are differentiated."
"This then is one way to explain the genesis of intermediate colours."
"A similar statement holds good with regard to habits of life."
"This is a place of unfathomable depth in the sea: at any rate no one has yet been able to find bottom there by sounding."
"For if you will call the individual man grammatical, then you will call both a man and an animal grammatical; and similarly in other cases."
"So much, then, is said about these; and about being in a position too it has been remarked, in the discussion of relatives, that it is spoken of paronymously from the positions."
"It is clear then how the terms are related in conversion, and in respect of being preferable or more to be avoided."
"For those who say that the universe is one something (i.e. those who generate all things out of one thing) are bound to assert that coming to be is alteration, and that whatever comes to be in the proper sense of the term is being altered; but those who make the matter of."
"And perhaps one might even suppose this to be, rather than honour, the end of the political life."
"This must suffice for our account of the number of causes and the modes of causation."
"Moreover, look at it from the point of view of things that stand in the same relation to each other."
"There are two veins pre eminent in magnitude."
"For she is not niggardly, like the smith who fashions the Delphian knife for many uses; she makes each thing for a single use, and every instrument is best made when intended for one and not for many uses."
"When women have partaken of salt in over abundance their children are apt to be born destitute of nails."
"Conversely, if one of two things is better or nobler than the other, an unusual degree of that thing is better or nobler than an unusual degree of the other."
"It is clumsy in its movements, has difficulty in procuring its food, preys on dead animals, is always hungry, and at all times whining and screaming."
"Hence all the things called from substances and differentiae are so called synonymously."
"But, strictly speaking, as I have already said, the means of life must I be provided beforehand by nature; for the business of nature is to furnish food to that which is born, and the food of the offspring is always what remains over of that from which it is produced."
"For to begin with, the sphere of unanimity is not matters of thought but matters of action, and herein it is not in so far as they think the same, but in so far as in addition to thinking the same they choose to do the same about what they think."
"But in neither way does it suit to maintain the contrary; for it is not necessary that if the universal negative is false, the universal affirmative should be true, nor is it reputable that if the one is false the other is true."
"Is it because moisture becomes abundant instead of scanty, being melted by the heat, and moisture, which is heavy, takes the place of breath, which is light?"
"Anticipation is the method by which we shall counteract the ill feeling which is felt against us by anticipating the adverse criticisms of our audience and the arguments of those who are going to speak against us."
"Therefore every word must be intelligible and signify something, and not many things but only one; and if it signifies more than one thing, it must be made plain to which of these the word is being applied."
"But perhaps they do not mean the same'."
"At other times the air is condensed by cold and squeezes out and ejects the hot element; making their motion look more like that of a thing thrown than like a running fire."
"Any one then who insists upon an exact statement of this kind of theory, instead of assenting after a passing glance at it, will see that it removes generation from the world."
"For they are skin winged; but no animal, unless it has barbed feathers, has the tail of a bird; for a bird's tail is composed of such feathers."
"About this period the embryo begins to resolve into distinct parts"
"(Weight and speed are common to both contraries; for each of them has two meanings, 'weight' means both that which has any amount of gravity and that which has an excess of gravity, and 'speed' both that which has any amount of movement and that which has an excess of movement; for even the slow has a certain speed and the light a certain weight.)"
"Correspondence to subject' means that we must neither speak casually about weighty matters, nor solemnly about trivial ones; nor must we add ornamental epithets to commonplace nouns, or the effect will be comic, as in the works of Cleophon, who can use phrases as absurd as 'O queenly fig tree'."
"For these do not take pleasure in the same things, but the one in seeing the beloved and the other in receiving attentions from his lover; and when the bloom of youth is passing the friendship sometimes passes too (for the one finds no pleasure in the sight of the other, and the other gets no attentions from the first); but many lovers on the other hand are constant, if familiarity has led them to love each other's characters,"
"To both we say: 'you are partly right and partly wrong.'"
"Relatively, however, to the secondary revolution, I mean that of the planets, we are above and on the right and they are below and on the left."
"Look at them species by species, and not in their infinite multitude; for then the inquiry will proceed more directly and in fewer steps."
"It is clear then that chance is an accidental cause in the sphere of those actions for the sake of something which involve choice."
"For a parallel question is raised respecting the state, whether a certain act is or is not an act of the state; for example, in the transition from an oligarchy or a tyranny to a democracy."
"(This is obvious in contraries."
"It seems that when we call a thing not something else but 'of' that something (e.g. a casket is not wood but of wood, and wood is not earth but made of earth, Omitting pesein."
"For excellence does not follow upon pleasure and utility, but both these follow upon excellence."
"But since this is impossible, there must be such a thing as an indivisible line."
"The reason why those who say substances are universal combined these two views in one, is that they did not make them identical with sensible things."
"Unity is required in respect of time in order that there may be no interval of immobility, for where there is intermission of motion there must be rest, and a motion that includes intervals of rest will be not one but many, so that a motion that is interrupted by stationariness is not one or continuous, and it is so interrupted if there is an interval of time."
"The most important of the six is the combination of the incidents of the story."
"Plainly, then, practical wisdom is an excellence and not an art."
"Such a story may arouse the human feeling in us, but it will not move us to either pity or fear; pity is occasioned by undeserved misfortune, and fear by that of one like ourselves; so that there will be nothing either piteous or fear inspiring in the situation."
"Evidently there are not causes and principles of the accidental, of the same kind as there are of what is in its own right; for if there were, everything would be of necessity."
"The same is true of the other emotions."
"Again, the Forms are patterns not only of sensible things, but of themselves too, eg the Form of genus will be a genus of Forms; therefore the same thing will be pattern and copy."
"So also it is easy to understand why, in those animals that have strong and compact bones, some of these should be entirely void of marrow, while the rest contain but little of it; for here the nutriment is spent in forming the bones."
"The previous definition does, indeed, apply to all relatives, yet this their being called what they are, of other things is not what their being relatives is."
"The matter, too, might seem to be place, at least if we consider it in what is at rest and is not separate but in continuity."
"When the poet says: He leapt on the foe as a lion, this is a simile; when he says of him 'the lion leapt', it is a metaphor here, since both are courageous, he has transferred to Achilles the name of 'lion'."
"Some spread upwards, others downwards, while others are intermediate."
"Now what is explanatory in this way and what is explanatory of come about together when they come about, and are the case together when they are; and similarly for having come about and going to be."
"Now it is possible for both the propositions to be false, and it is possible for only one to be."
"The skin, again, is formed by the drying of the flesh, like the scum upon boiled substances; it is so formed not only because it is on the outside, but also because what is glutinous, being unable to evaporate, remains on the surface."
"For the same reason also they cannot enter from outside."
"Gentleness, then, is in a mean between irascibility and a want of anger."
"And those things also are greater goods which men desire more earnestly to bring about for themselves or for their friends, whereas those things which they least desire to bring about are greater evils."
"Next let us determine the number and character of the subjects which we discuss in the council chamber and in the popular assembly."
"Why does the salty element, being earthy, float on the surface at all (for its natural tendency is to sink)?"
"or 'It is known to everybody'."
"But the more perfect are those which are hotter in their nature and have more moisture and are not earthy in their composition."
"For the octopus walks little and walks badly."
"We must now extend our consideration from the parts to the whole living body; for what the part is to the part, that the whole faculty of sense is to the whole sensitive body as such."
"With regard to testaceans, of the walking species the urchin appears to have the least developed sense of smell; and, of the stationary species, the ascidian and the barnacle."
"But even supposing these are contraries, it in no way follows that the motions on the whole circle are contraries."
"The kingfisher and the cerylus are found near the seaside."
"History shows that almost all tyrants have been demagogues who gained the favour of the people by their accusation of the notables."
"whatever of them is the case, another is; and if that, another; and if that, the first."
"But in many states the law goes to the length of admitting aliens; for in some democracies a man is a citizen though his mother only be a citizen; and a similar principle is applied to illegitimate children among many."
"May not the explanation be that these mimics use a feeble and thin voi when they imitate a distant sound?"
"That it is a mean with regard to fear and confidence has already been made evident; and plainly the things we fear are terrible things, and these are, to speak without qualification, evils; for which reason people even define fear as expectation of evil."
"But indeed it by no means follows from the fact that teaching is the same as learning, that to learn is the same as to teach, any more than it follows from the fact that there is one distance between two things which are at a distance from each other,"
"And so nature has contrived well to meet the case in this also, for she causes the failure of the teeth to synchronize with old age and death."
"What we say about their position must be followed with the help of the diagram."
"Thus there will be two negations of one statement."
", the passage into Fire is coming to be unqualified, but passing away of something (e.g. of Earth); whilst the coming to be of Earth is qualified"
"firmations of the possible to be and the not possible are related to one another, and of the admissible and not admissible, and about the impossible and the necessary."
"Why is it generally considered that the philosopher is superior to the orator?"
"Cities thus situated manifestly reap the benefit of intercourse with their ports; and any harm which is likely to accrue may be easily guarded against by the laws, which will pronounce and determine who may hold communication with one another, and who may not."
"(For sensation and motion are exercised in the direction which we term forwards, and it is on this very relation that the distinction of before and behind is founded.)"
"The other can be refuted in a manner similar to the conversion: I mean, if the conclusion is converted into its contrary, contrarily; if into its opposite, oppositely."
"betters, with a view to its own advantage, not to that of its subjects, and therefore against their will."
"If a body contains more water than earth fire only thickens it: if it contains more earth fire solidifies it."
"No, by heaven (will be the reply), for the supreme authority justly willed it."
"and this brain caul is that skin like membrane which closely surrounds the brain."
"For that both should be the same is not possible; else contraries will have the same definition."
"In all this nature acts like an intelligent workman."
"Let us therefore treat of all these matters and, as far as possible, inquire into their divine nature, and discuss the nature and position and movement of each of them."
"But as regards the secondary substances, though it appears from the form of the name when one speaks of man or animal that a secondary substance likewise signifies a certain 'this', this is not really true; rather, it signifies a certain qualification for the subject is not, as the primary substance is, one, but man and animal are said of many things."
"for there is by nature both a justice and an advantage appropriate to the rule of a master, another to kingly rule, another to constitutional rule; but there is none naturally appropriate to tyranny, or to any other perverted form of government; for these come into being contrary to nature."
"The lavish runs short of necessaries; but the liberal man gives his superfluities."
"To suppose, then, either that heat and cold are the causes of male and female, or that the different sexes come from the right and left, is not altogether unreasonable in itself; for the right of the body is hotter than the left, and the concocted semen is hotter than the unconcocted; again, the thickened is concocted, and the more thickened is more fertile."
"only it must also recognize the particulars; for it is practical, and practice is concerned with particulars."
"Now matter is potentiality, form actuality; and actuality is of two kinds, one as eg knowledge, the other as eg reflecting."
"Therefore he inquired what excellence is, not how or from what it arises."
"Even this is not correct."
"In the latter case it may be either something which by its own nature is capable of being moved, eg the parts of the body or the nail in the ship, or something which is not in itself capable of being moved, but is always moved accidentally, as whiteness or science."
"After this work is over, they attend to the grubs."
"We must here define the sense in which these species are to be admitted or denied."
"These, however, are matters which have been separately considered in the treatises on Sensation and on Sleep."
"In general, do all substances fall under one science or under more than one?"
"The particulars of conception are the same for the jackal as for the dog; the cubs of the animal are born blind, and the female bears two, or three, or four at a birth."
"In a general way one may put it that they do so when they begin to be strong."
"Since their reasons, however, are neither conclusive nor in themselves possible, one must not, on this account at least, assert the existence of number."
"But what difference does it make whether women rule, or the rulers are ruled by women?"
"And if we inquire what are the principles or elements of substances and relations and qualities whether they are the same or different, clearly when the terms 'principle' and 'element' are used in several senses the principles and elements of all are the same, but when the senses are distinguished the causes are not the same but different, except that in a special sense the causes of all are the same."
"We think bad things, as well as good ones, have serious importance; and we think the same of anything that tends to produce such things, while those which have little or no such tendency we consider unimportant."
"so, too, with the solids that form from milk."
"But these characteristics cannot belong at the same time to the same thing."
"Again, as quantities have a beginning and a middle and an end, those to which the position does not make a difference are called totals, and those to which it (<U+2206>) does, wholes, and those which admit of both descriptions are both wholes and totals."
"Horns attach rather to the skin than to the bone"
"Nor does goodness or badness with regard to such things depend on committing adultery with the right woman, at the right time, and in the right way, but simply to do any of them is to go wrong."
"But all intermediates stand between opposites of some kind; for only between these can change take place in virtue of their own nature."
"For temperance and generally every excellence is the best state, and the best state lies in the attainment of the best thing, and the best thing is the mean between excess and defect; for people are blameworthy on both grounds, both on that of excess and on that of defect."
"The honey that is golden in hue is excellent."
"We have now spoken about the sterility of mules, and about those animals which are viviparous both externally and within themselves."
"And nearly two fifths of the whole country are held by women; this is owing to the number of heiresses and to the large dowries which are customary."
"For one assertion or the other will have to be true of length universally, if it is to be true of the genus; and this is contrary to the fact; for there exist both lengths which have, and lengths which have not, breadth."
"We are moreover ashamed of having done to us, having had done, or being about to have done to us acts that involve us in dishonour and reproach, eg when we submit to outrage"
"Further, the arguments they use to prove their position are not difficult to expose."
"It is manifest, then, that the animals above mentioned are in possession of all the five senses."
"All ending in, or in the two compounds of this last, Ps and, are masculines."
"It is clear, then, that rhetoric is not bound up with a single definite class of subjects, but is like dialectic; it is clear, also, that it is useful."
"These are the reasons, too, why mothers are fonder of their children than fathers; bringing them into the world costs them more pains, and they know better that the children are their own."
"Now the burying of things in the earth is the contrary of this and produces a contrary result."
"That, then, there are several sorts of friendship, that they are three in number, and what are the differences between being loved and having love returned, and between friends on an equality and friends in a relation of superiority and inferiority, has now been stated."
"Others, as Empedocles, say that the differentiation takes place in the uterus; for he says that if the uterus is hot what enters it becomes male, if cold, female, the cause of the heat or cold being the flow of the menstrual fluids, according as it is colder or hotter, older or more recent."
"Of the qualities of bodies hardness and softness are those which must primarily belong to a determined thing, for anything made up of the dry and the moist is necessarily either hard or soft."
"tes phaseos, idion eie. ."
"Let us first examine their obvious characteristics, and afterwards those which are less evident."
"Sheep and, as has been said, wasps are enemies to the bees."
"Horse trainers do not appoint a horse as leader to a troop, as herdsmen appoint a bull as leader to a herd, because the horse is not steady but quick tempered and skittish."
"For substance is a single genus of being, so that the principles can differ only as prior and posterior, not in genus; for in a single genus there is always a single contrariety, all the other contrarieties in it being held to be reducible to one."
"There is a kind of membrane stretched over the under parts; and the points of attachment are the more numerous."
"Again, since the nutriment and its residue possess a like power, it is likely that the product of those testacea which 'honeycomb' should resemble the original formation, and"
"So much then for the objects of mathematics; we have said that they exist and in what sense they exist, and in what sense they are prior and in what sense not prior."
"It is plain, then, that there are elements, and why."
"Since we know what action or character is required, then, in order to express these facts as suggestions for action, we have to change and reverse our form of words."
"For we say that that which everyone thinks really is so; and the man who attacks this belief will hardly have anything more credible to maintain instead."
"For if it is because they take violent exercise, those who run also take very violent exercise, yet their bowels do not open."
"Now the first figure belongs to the first body, and the first body is"
"Again, we say that a thing is at rest if its condition in whole and in part is uniform now and before; but the now contains no before; consequently, there can be no rest in it."
"The reason is that error may occur in two ways (either in reasoning or in perception when we are engaged in the very act), Ignoring Susemihl's indication of a lacuna."
"The tunny, the pelamys, and the bonito penetrate into the Euxine in summer and pass the summer there; as do also the greater part of such fish as congregate in shoals together."
"Why is it that if a scroll is cut level and straight, then if you cut it parallel to the base, the edge becomes straight when unrolled, but if it is cut obliquely, the edge becomes crooked?"
"Of these three it is the thing in which the motion takes place that makes it one generically or specifically, it is the thing moved that makes the motion one in subject, and it is the time that makes it consecutive; but it Ross excises this sentence as a doublet of."
"It is evident too that if some perception is wanting, it is necessary for some understanding to be wanting too which it is impossible to get if we learn either by induction or by demonstration, and demonstration depends on universals and induction on particulars, and it is impossible to consider universals except through induction (since even in the case of what are called abstractions one will be able to make familiar through induction that some things belong to each genus, even if they are not separable, in so far as each thing is such and such), and it is impossible to get an induction without perception for of particulars there is perception; for it is not possible to get understanding of them; for it can be got neither from universals without induction nor through induction without perception."
"Now if the terms 'continuous', 'in contact', and 'in succession' are understood as defined above things being continuous if their extremities are one, in contact if their extremities are together, and in succession if there is nothing of their own kind intermediate between them nothing that is continuous can be composed of indivisibles: eg a line cannot be composed of points, the line being continuous and the point indivisible."
"Again it is still better that there shall be three cavities, so that the middle and odd one may serve as a source common to both sides."
"Why is it that some animals cough, while others do not, for example a man coughs, but an ox does not?"
"But alike in using epithets and in using diminutives we must be wary and must observe the mean."
"Why are short walks fatiguing?"
"And in general if a thing is perishing, there will be present something that exists; and if a thing is coming to be, there must be something from which it comes to be and something by which it is generated, and this process cannot be ad infinitum."
"Every other art can instruct or persuade about its own particular subject matter; for instance, medicine about what is healthy and unhealthy, geometry about the properties of magnitudes, arithmetic about numbers, and the same is true of the other arts and sciences."
"Being, then, shared by the animals they are held in least honour and so are regarded as the only pleasures deserving of reproach, or at any rate more so than any others."
"It is clear then that the same deductions cannot be analysed in these figures which could not be analysed into the first figure, and that when deductions are reduced to the first figure these alone are confirmed by reduction to what is impossible."
"but as chance has it, since it is not necessary either for it to be blind or for it to have sight, but as chance has it."
"the mean is excess or defect."
"The only reason, therefore, for their being called animals is that they have sensation; for genera give names and definitions to the species which fall under them, while the species give names to the individuals, and the genus ought to rest on a common cause present in the several individuals and not on several causes; but the nature of the cause, on which the genus is based, is not familiar to every one."
"For things are called the same so"
"katho ouden echon melethos (ho lambanei to tou Zenonos logo)"
"I downwards in spite of itself."
"This is sound law and custom."
"but some other conclusion, and"
"I By Ether Ether divine, by Fire destructive Fire, By Love Love, and Hate by cruel Hate."
"For to grasp is homonymous; it is to understand by the use of knowledge, and also to acquire knowledge."
"You will speak lucidly, if you do not suddenly leave your subject and go on to other points before you have finished it."
"It is not possible to be at once white and black, and therefore it must also be impossible for a thing to be affected at one and the same moment by the forms of both, assuming it to be the case that sensation and thinking are properly so described."
"Of the crab, the varieties are indefinite and incalculable."
"Likewise, that which is produced by a greater good is itself a greater good; thus, if what is wholesome is more desirable and a greater good than what gives pleasure, health too must be a greater good than pleasure."
"It follows that first of all we must treat of nutrition and reproduction, for the nutritive soul is found along with all the others and is the most primitive and widely distributed power of soul, being indeed that one in virtue of which all are said to have life."
"Such are the properties of vein, sinew, and fibrous tissue."
"Of wasps, there are two kinds."
"This mistake is most commonly made in regard to the genera of things, eg if one were to say that being a colour is an accident of white for being a colour does not happen by accident to white, but colour is its genus."
"Moreover, according to them, things are seen through air and water and other transparent bodies, because such bodies possess pores, invisible indeed owing to their minuteness, but close set and arranged in rows"
"the mother cannot bring the second embryo to perfection, but it is cast out in a state like what are called abortions."
"This implies that part of the whole sphere is above and part below: above being the part on which we live, below the other."
"It turns out also that things are their own contraries."
"Propositions that are partly false and partly true are of this type; for in the case of these it is possible by withdrawing a part to leave the rest true."
"In the case of certain of these powers, the answers to these questions are easy, in the case of others we are puzzled what to say."
"Of those which are thought to be bad some will be bad without qualification but not bad for a particular person, but worthy of his choice, and some will not be worthy of choice even for a particular person, but only at a particular time and for a short period, though not without qualification; while others are not even pleasures, but seem to be so, viz."
"but it collapses and modern pipette."
"and I also an inclination to behave as receptive matter and form."
"Eggs are hatched under brooding hens more rapidly in summer than in winter; that is to say, hens hatch in eighteen days in summer, but occasionally in winter take as many as twenty five."
"The citizens who are not guardians are the majority, and about them nothing has been determined: are the husbandmen, too, to have their property in common?"
"That in general it is impossible for the infinite to be acted upon by the finite or to act upon it may be shown as follows."
"Hence the epigram on the victor at the Olympic games: In time past, bearing a yoke on my shoulders, of wood unshaven, I carried my loads of fish from Argos to Tegea town."
"Yet there are some who, while they allow that every animal exists and was generated by nature, nevertheless hold that the heaven was constructed to be what it is by chance and spontaneity; the heaven, in which not the faintest sign of chance or of disorder is discernible."
"For the contrary might have been expected, since we might naturally be supposed to be less sated by foods which are akin to us."
"In those cases, then, in which it is necessary to speak universally, but not possible to do so correctly, the law takes the usual case, though it is not ignorant of the possibility of error."
"Again, if there is any magnitude, whether time or thing, absolutely imperceptible owing to its smallness, it follows that there would not be either a thing which one perceives, or a time in which one perceives it, unless in the sense that in some part of the given time he sees some part of the given thing."
"The man who attains the mean, then, is such as we have described, but has not received a name; of those who contribute pleasure, the man who aims at being pleasant with no ulterior object is obsequious, but the man who does so in order that he may get some advantage in the direction of money or the things that money buys is a flatterer; while the man who quarrels with everything is, as has been said, churlish and contentious."
"If then the numerable can be numbered, it would also be possible to go through the infinite."
"This happens in those parts where it is to the advantage of the surrounding flesh that its solid base shall be soft and mucilaginous."
"They have been discriminated more accurately in the History of Animals."
"Thus (e.g.) inasmuch as perceiving is more a property of animal than knowing of man, and perceiving is not a property of animal, knowing will not be a property of man."
"And akin to this difficulty there is another;"
"This will be true in the case of any attributes that do not always and necessarily follow."
"But what is could not be of the same nature as what is not."
"But one is misled by the usages of language into imagining that it is merely the final term of the series Many cleft footed or Two footed for instance that constitutes the whole differentia."
"Hence a poor man cannot be magnificent, since he has not the means with which to spend large sums fittingly; and he who tries is a fool, since he spends beyond what can be expected of him and what is proper, but it is right expenditure that is excellent."
"The subjects of our deliberation are such as seem to present us with alternative possibilities: about things that could not have been, and cannot now or in the future be, other than they are, nobody who takes them to be of this nature wastes his time in deliberation."
"Consequently if the rules for trials which."
"That it is not a science of production is clear even from the history of the earliest philosophers."
"Examples of those involving combination are: man runs, man wins; and of those without combination:"
"Next we must describe the operations of the active qualities and the forms taken by the passive."
"Whether, then, another man opposes him either directly in any way, as by preventing him from drinking when he is thirsty, or indirectly; whether someone works against him, or fails to work with him, or otherwise vexes him while he is in this mood, he is equally angry in all these cases."
"though perhaps these have the same constituent."
"Slip in anything else that the judges will enjoy."
"For since it is true that does not belong to some, even if it belongs to no, and since if it belongs to no a deduction is (as we have seen) not possible, clearly it will not be possible now either."
"the less the bronze would be no part of the form); but it is hard to effect this severance in thought.g."
"There is here situated a mouth, and two teeth in the mouth; and above these two large eyes, and between the eyes a small cartilage enclosing a small brain; and within the mouth it has a minute organ of a fleshy nature, and this it uses as a tongue for none of them has a tongue."
"For then the same thing will be both beautiful and not beautiful, and likewise will be both existent and non existent."
"Therefore if the heart is first made in some animals, and what is analogous to the heart in the others which have no heart, it is from this or its analogue that the first principle of movement would arise."
"both to be pleased and to be pained at the right objects and in the right way."
"Grasshoppers copulate in the same way as other insects; that is to say, with the lesser covering the larger, for the male is smaller than the female."
"For a single thing has a single movement, and a simple thing a simple: contrary movements cannot belong to the same thing, and movement away from the centre is the contrary of movement to it."
"Again, see whether the parts perish together with the whole; for it ought to happen vice versa, that the whole perishes when the parts perish: when the whole perishes, there is no necessity that the parts should perish too."
"That imagination is not sense is clear from the following considerations: Sense is either a faculty or an activity, eg sight or seeing:"
"It is not what has nothing outside it that is infinite, but what always has something outside it."
"The lava stream in Sicily is an extraordinary phenomenon."
"But if one term is related universally, the other in part only, to its subject, there must be a perfect deduction whenever universality is posited with reference to the major term either affirmatively or negatively, and particularity with reference to the minor term affirmatively; but whenever the universality is posited in relation to the minor term, or the terms are related in any other way, a deduction is impossible."
"That we are right in this supposition is shown by induction."
"For the eggs of these latter resemble a grub, in that they increase after oviposition, and the grub of insects again as it develops resembles an egg; how so we shall explain later."
"Of this, however, we have as yet no proof worthy of credit."
"Thus it requires them at the time when the tree sprouts, and while the nutritive principle in plants is derived from the earth, the principle which generates seeds is derived from the sun."
"All urchins are supplied with eggs, but in some of the species the eggs are exceedingly small and unfit for food."
"The helpfulness must therefore meet, preferably, just this kind of need; and failing just this kind, some other kind as great or greater."
"These then being constantly carried from the shadow into the light and from the light into the shadow, the common boundary between the light and the shadow is seen to move similarly."
"Also, that is more desirable which is more useful at every season or at most seasons, eg justice and temperance rather than courage; for they are always useful, while courage is only useful at times."
"So it is necessary that A belongs to C;"
"But of dew there is little; for the vapour collects for it in a single day and from a small area, as its quick formation and scanty quantity show."
"The genera and species of Testacea are very numerous."
"The pinna grows straight up from the bottom in sandy and slimy places; these creatures have inside them a pinna guard, in some cases a small carid and in other cases a little crab; if the pinna be deprived of this pinna guard it soon dies."
"In what figure it is possible to draw a conclusion from propositions which are opposed, and in what figure this is not possible, will be made clear in this way."
"Hence it has no activity, being devoid of impulse."
"that your effort is to deny what he has affirmed, or to affirm what he denied: don't say that you are trying to show that the knowledge of contraries is, or is not, the same."
"Again, how can anything continuous and naturally unified move itself?"
"The first question falls under the head of laws rather than of constitutions; for perpetual generalship might equally exist under any form of government, so that this matter may be dismissed for the present."
"They will therefore not have complaints of this sort."
"The same argument may be applied to anger; for there is thought to be a continence and incontinence of anger just as there is of appetite; and what is contrary to our anger is painful, and the repression is forced, so that if the forced is involuntary, all acts done out of anger would be voluntary."
"The creature uses its feet either as hands or feet, and doubles them up as one doubles a fist."
"of quality, and with those changes some parts of the body enlarge, others grow smaller."
"That is better than other things which is useful for a number of purposes; for example, that which promotes life, good life, pleasure, and noble conduct."
"Or shall we argue that music conduces to excellence, on the ground that it can form our minds and habituate us to true pleasures as our bodies are made by gymnastic to be of a certain character?"
"Hence the friendship which rests on interest is never secure, but changes along with the interest; and the same with the friendship which rests on pleasure."
"The bite is all the more dangerous if the mouse be pregnant when she bites, for the boils then burst, but do not burst otherwise."
"So with those things which are of service when the need is greater; for example, in old age and times of sickness."
"Rhetoric is useful because things that are true and things that are just have a natural tendency to prevail over their opposites, so that if the decisions of judges are not what they ought to be, the defeat must be due to the speakers themselves, and they must be blamed accordingly."
"Men of natural ability can do this; for by a right liking or disliking for whatever is proposed to them they rightly select what is best."
"For besides the sensible things there will be, on similar principles, the things with which astronomy and those with which geometry deals; but how is it possible that a heaven and its parts or indeed anything which has movement should exist apart from the sensible heaven?"
"Now either it will be predicated as a substance, ie either being the genus or the difference of what is predicated"
"The same is true of running and wrestling."
"Certainly each is not the one in itself."
"Hence what is not capable of action cannot do anything by chance."
"Each of the problems then can be proved in the manner described; but it is possible to deduce some of them in another way, eg universal problems by the inquiry which leads up to a particular conclusion, with the addition of an hypothesis."
"An echo occurs, when, a mass of air having been unified, bounded, and prevented from dissipation by the containing walls of a vessel, the air rebounds from this mass of air like a ball from a wall."
"They cut off a part of being and investigate the attributes of this part"
"Also if not animal seems not to be a property of not man, neither will animal be a property of man."
"It is neither cause in the sense of the matter of existents (for nothing is composed of it), nor as the form and definition of things, nor as end, nor does it move existents."
"Fabulous stories are told concerning the longevity of the animal, but the stories have never been verified, and the period of gestation and the growth in the fawn would not lead one to attribute extreme longevity to this creature."
"The chief parts into which the body as a whole is divided, are the head, the neck, the thorax, two arms and two legs."
"For the shameless man is he who says and does anything on any occasion or before any people; but the bashful man is the opposite of this, who is afraid to say or do anything before anybody (for such a man is incapacitated for action, who is bashful about everything); but modesty and the modest man are a mean between these."
"The formula, therefore, in which the term itself is not present"
"Thus, in quadrupeds the duality is universal, while the absence of such duality is universal in testaceans, and of these creatures, as with plants, some individuals are fruitful and some are not."
"Another is used when we have to urge or discourage a course of action that may be done in either of two opposite ways, and have to apply the method just mentioned to both."
"The excellence of diction is for it to be at once clear and not mean."
"The cause of their not having dreams appears somewhat like that which operates in the case of infants, and after meals."
"They quite neglect the fact that there might be a thousand such letters; for one sign might be attached to."
"And just as in a single egg there exists the force to generate the chicken and the material of its nutriment up to the time when it reaches perfection and emerges from the egg, and the female lays the egg in a short space of time; so too with the plant."
"For it is not the white that is the milk, but the yolk, for it is this that is the nourishment of the chick, whereas they think it is the white because of the similarity of colour."
"But the whole vital process of the earth takes place so gradually and in periods of time which are so immense compared with the length of our life, that these changes are not observed, and before their course can be recorded from beginning to end whole nations perish and are destroyed."
"All that we have said may be summed up under three heads, which answer to the three aims of the tyrant."
"The moist is what makes the dry determinable, and each serves as a sort of glue to the other as Empedocles said in his poem on Nature, 'glueing meal together by means of water'."
"But it is impossible that the same thing should be necessitated by the being and by the not being of the same thing."
"Just as some thoughts in the soul are neither true nor false while some are necessarily one or the other, so also with spoken sounds."
"For if it comes from a weaker source it brings clear weather, but if it starts from a stronger source it brings clouds."
"We may argue on grounds of reason, and the same result will follow."
"Then, again, how will these parts that came from all the body grow?"
"And if they are too minute to admit any body, it is ridiculous to suppose there is a 'minute' void and yet to deny the existence of a big one of whatever size, or to imagine 'the void' means anything else than a body's place"
"Amongst other fish, a lamia shark, after falling in amongst a shoal, has been seen to be covered with wounds."
"The murex lives for about fifty days after capture; during this period they feed off one another, as there grows on the shell"
"Further, utility is a good thing."
"For deduction proves something of something through the middle term."
"Some say also that in the neighbourhood of Babylon certain fishes remain in the holes, which contain moisture, while the river is drying up; that they go out to the threshing floors and feed, and walk upon their fins, and move the tail to and fro, and when they are pursued they flee, enter into their holes, and stand facing their pursuer; for people often approach and tease them."
"Is it because the tooth is more inclined to slip in the fingers than from the tooth extractor?"
"Since then that which is moved, being a body, is nevertheless unchanging, how should the mover, which is incorporeal, be changed?"
"For this kind of change may possibly take place in a thing all at once, without one half of it being changed before the other; eg it is possible that water should be frozen simultaneously in every part."
"As the body cools, the light humours are carried into the bladder."
"But of what it depends on him to do or not to do, he is himself the cause; and what he is the cause of depends on him."
"The movement in such cases is excessive, owing to the heat generated from the food."
"It would not be just that he who paid one mina should have the same share of a hundred minae, whether of the principal or of the profits, as he who paid the remaining ninety nine."
"Note any falsehoods about irrelevant matters they will look like proof that his other statements also are false."
"Let A stand for knowledge that it is good, for good, for justice."
"He is therefore a lover of good, not a lover of self."
"It is used in another sense, when something which is capable of coming or of having come to be does not exist; such a thing is ungenerated in the sense that its generation is a possibility."
"Is it cold because it blows from the sea and from extended areas?"
"That is why women take care that the place is as dry as it was before the act took place."
"Practicable things are all those which admit of performance."
"Another good occasion is when you expect to show that your opponent is contradicting either his own words or what everyone believes."
"Therefore it turns out that all of them are right in some respect, but on the whole not right."
"And the conclusion will not be necessary."
"The great vein looks as though made of membrane or skin, while the aorta is narrower than it, and is very sinewy; and as it stretches away to the head and to the lower parts"
"Obviously then it would be better to assume a finite number of principles."
"That Anaxagoras has not explained, nor can any answer be inferred from his words."
"We come now to the Cephalopoda."
"The voice, then, trembles owing to the departure of heat from the chest, the region in which the voice is set in motion thus becoming cooled."
"Or as Sappho said, 'Death is an evil thing; the gods have so judged it, or they would die'."
"The reason why they put motion into these genera is that it is thought to be something indefinite, and the principles in the second colu are indefinite because they are privative: none of them is either a 'this' or such or comes under any of the other categories."
"not conduce both to health and to strength; for obviously a condition of health is one of fatness, while a condition of strength is a state of rarity."
"Now in the summer the sea is cold, as also are the sea breezes, but the land is hot, so that if any cloud comes from the land, it must have been formed from some considerable cause; for it would have been dissolved if it had been weak."
"If on the other hand both are in what is moved and acted on both the agency and the patiency (e.g. both teaching and learning, though they are two, in the learner), then, first, the actuality of each will not be present in each, and, a second absurdity, a thing will have two motions at the same time."
"And is equal to for the angle at is equal to the angle at (for the exterior angle of a parallelogram is equal to the interior opposite angle); and the angle at is half a right angle, for is equal to and the angle at is a right angle."
"There is no doubt but that fishes have the sense of taste, for a great number of them delight in special flavours; and fishes freely take the hook if it be baited with a piece of flesh from a tunny or from any fat fish, obviously enjoying the taste and the eating of bait of this kind."
"Is health, or political power, a good thing?"
"Hence it is clear that even among the things which are outside what is necessary and what is for the most part, there are some in connexion with which the phrase 'for the sake of something' is applicable."
"For it is neither appreciably near to the heat of the stars, nor to the rays reflected from the earth."
"Aparctias is next to it, and blows in a southerly direction from the pole."
"In the cloven hoofed quadrupeds the lighter character of the hind legs admits of there being a huckle bone; and the presence of the huckle bone prevents them from having a solid hoof, the bony substance remaining in the joint, and therefore being deficient in the foot."
"Why is it that the sounds produced from two jars of the same size and quality, one empty and the other half full, give an accord in the octave?"
"but what is curved does not enable us to distinguish either itself or the straight."
"These are the conclusions at which we arrive respecting kingship and its various forms, and this is the answer to the question, whether it is or is not advantageous to states, and to which, and how."
"We may admit to the full that being pained or pleased, or thinking, are movements (each of them a being moved), and that the movement is originated by the soul."
"And it requires an effort to sing the high notes, but the low notes are easier."
"If now is equally or more convincing than we have a reduction; for we are nearer to knowledge, since we have made an extra assumption, being before without knowledge that A belongs to."
"Now since opposition is of four kinds, and one of these two terms is privative in meaning, they must be contraries, and neither contradictory nor correlative."
"Consequently it is not necessary, with these statements either, for one contradictory to be true and the other false."
"It is plain that delivery has just as much to do with oratory as with poetry."
"The theory of Anaxagoras that the principles are infinite was probably due to his acceptance of the common opinion of the physicists that nothing comes into being from what is not."
"Thus the inquiry is about the predication of one thing of another."
"So the King of the Persians, whenever he was passing through the place, remained there for three days, ordering all his men to hunt them down; and he gave a prize to him who caught the greatest number."
"Again, one may avoid being affected by fortifying oneself beforehand with the thought, 'There will come a pretty woman, so one must control oneself'."
"Thus the indivisible will be divisible, and that which has no parts will be passed over not in an indivisible but in a greater time."
"The head is situated over the right leg close to the flank, and the wing is placed over the head; and about this time is plain to be seen the membrane resembling an after birth that comes next after the outermost membrane of the shell, into which membrane the one of the navel strings was described as leading (and the chick in its entirety is now within it), and so also is the other membrane resembling an after birth, namely that surrounding the yolk, into which the second navel string was described as leading; and both of them were described as being connected with the heart and the big vein."
"Such is the nature of evidences and the method by which you will obtain the greatest number of them."
"Obviously then the actuality or the formula is different when the matter is different; for in some cases it is the juxtaposition, in others the mixing, and in others some other of the attributes we have named."
"Yet surely the ruler cannot dispense with the general principle which exists in law; and that is a better ruler which is free from passion than that in which it is innate."
"Honey is taken from the hives on the appearance of the wild fig."
"For they are asserting that chance is not responsible for the existence or generation of animals and plants, nature or mind or something of the kind being the cause of them (for it is not any chance thing that comes from a given seed but an olive from one kind and a man from another); and yet at the same time they assert that the heavenly sphere and the divinest of visible things arose spontaneously, having no such cause as is assigned to animals and plants."
"For the reasons already mentioned, then, the land should be divided in the manner described."
"And, as has been stated, the issue of the younger ewes is poorer than that of the older ones."
"With some few persons, it is true, during a short time in the flower of their youth the loss of it, if it be excessive in quantity, is an alleviation (just as in the case of the nutriment in its first stage, if too much have been taken, since getting rid of this also makes the body more comfortable), and so it may be also when other residues come away with it, for in that case it is not only semen that is lost but also other influences come away mingled with it, and these are morbid."
"We may convince ourselves of this by induction."
"and so it burns up: whereas copper has it in each part but not continuous, and insufficient in quantity to give rise to flame."
"With regard to the difference of the spermatic organs in males, if we are to investigate the causes of their existence, we must first grasp the final cause of the testes."
"Wind eggs, then, participate in generation so far as is possible for them."
"For the involuntary if base or bad is not blamable, if good is not praiseworthy, but only the voluntary."
"But now when allotment of all has been made. ."
"Excellence is greater than non excellence, badness than non badness; for excellence, goodness and badness are ends, which the mere absence of them cannot Pindar, Olympian I. be."
"A proof that it is so is the fact that there is more pleasure in drinking when one is thirsty than in eating when one is hungry."
"Shell fish, then, grow in the way above mentioned; and some of them grow in shallow water, some on the seashore, some in muddy places, some on hard and stony ground, and some in sandy places."
"And as the hair dries it becomes harder; for it is the moisture which makes it soft."
"And for other things their being will mean their being mixed, and their not being will mean the opposite."
"so is proved by facts of actual experience."
"And in a sense chance and art are concerned with the same objects; as Agathon says, 'art loves chance and chance loves art'."
"But still the bravery of passion is above all natural (passion is invincible, and therefore children are excellent fighters); civic courage is the effect of law."
"Again, while the motions of spinous fishes are rapid, those of the Selachia are sluggish, inasmuch as they have neither fish spine nor sinew; but an operculum requires rapidity of motion, seeing that the office of the gills is to minister as it were to expiration."
"Now he is selfcontrolled who, though he has an appetite for a thing, yet does not act upon it owing to reason; therefore if his reason is wrong it will hinder him from doing what he has an appetite for; therefore it hinders him from doing what is right (for to that we supposed that his appetite led him); but he who fails to do what is right, when it is his duty to do it, is blameworthy; therefore the man of self control will sometimes be blameworthy."
"Or is it because singing high is worse than singing low, and a mistake is doing what is worse?"
"For the number of the locomotion is time, while the 'now' corresponds to the moving body, and is like the unit of number."
"Or is it because harmony is a ratio of numbers, and so is man and everything else?"
"(we yield to lust both voluntarily and involuntarily, to force involuntarily), for unresisting submission to them is due to unmanliness or cowardice."
"Hence servile, worthless, unambitious persons are not inclined to indignation, since there is nothing they can believe themselves to deserve."
"For Anaxagoras uses reason as a deus ex machina for the making of the world, and when he is at a loss to tell for what cause something necessarily is, then he drags reason in, but in all other cases ascribes events to anything rather than to reason."
"Of these the man and the time are divisible; but with the pallor it is otherwise (though they are all divisible accidentally; for that of which the pallor or any other quality is an accident is divisible)."
"Further, the materials of metaphors must be beautiful; and the beauty, like the ugliness, of all words"
"sex is fit for breeding purposes when eight months old: at about the same age some dogs lift the leg when voiding urine."
"Further, how can they account for the generation of flesh and bone or any other continuous body?"
"The selachia are viviparous; the rest are oviparous."
"For here again there is no discrepancy in the names used, in the case either of the original terms or of their contraries; for the contrary of sharp in either case is dull."
"But since we have spoken about each of the excellences in detail, it remains to sum up the particulars under one general statement."
"And since if one takes extreme cases. ."
"And, if politics be an art, change must be necessary in this as in any other art."
"The result which the legislator has produced is the reverse of beneficial; for he has made his city poor, and his citizens greedy."
"To meet them, therefore, you should draw the distinction before putting your question in such cases; for so long as the ambiguity remains undetected, the objection to the proposition will seem valid."
"And since that from which an organ comes into being and that by which it is increased are the same (i.e. the nutriment), each of the parts will be made out of such a material and such residual matter as it is able to receive."
"It is therefore clear that each characteristic is produced by wine and by nature by the same means; for the whole body functions under the control of heat."
"At present it concerns us only so far as is required for our present purpose, and accordingly we need only make the bare statement that it is possible for there to be a deduction of a thing's definition and essence."
"The same deception occurs also in the pipes."
"If, then, A is possible, also will be possible, if they were so related that if A is, must be."
"If, on the other hand, the conclusion does not follow, then that could not be the solution; and what we say in regard to the foregoing examples is that, even if all the premisses are granted, still no deduction is effected."
"Consequently must be identical with some of the Hs."
"For fishes and the like hear and smell, and yet have no visible organs for these senses in the head; a fact which demonstrates the accuracy of the opinion here maintained."
"The same applies also to flesh, for this too has a function."
"; for it is not the void only which is moved, but also the solid."
"For it is not clear whether in animals and plants universally it is a single or diverse cause that makes some to be long lived, others short lived."
"Inquiry about their 'what' takes the form of asking whether they are of such and such a nature or not."
"Hence the saying, 'Cruel is the strife of brethren', and again, 'They who love in excess also hate in excess'."
"Otherwise, ie if the air were not endowed with this function, constrained movement would be impossible."
"That nature exists, it would be absurd to try to prove; for it is obvious that there are many things of this kind, and to prove what is obvious by what is not is the mark of a man who is unable to distinguish what is self evident from what is not."
"For whether the units are undifferentiated or each differs from each, number must be counted by addition, eg by adding another one to the one, by adding another one to the two, and similarly."
"Or is it because the thigh remains more in the same position than the legs, and this is more fatiguing?"
"For then, owing to the presence of a more than proportionate amount of moisture, a natural process of cooling takes place, and the flesh becoming saturated assumes a most unhealthy condition."
"For in some the beak is straight, in others crooked; straight, in those who use it merely for eating; crooked, in those that live on raw flesh."
"From what has been said it is plain, then, that wisdom is knowledge, combined with comprehension, of the things that are highest by nature."
"For the mind often controls the body as a whole, but does not control certain parts of it, when they have been set in motion in a certain way, the heart, for example, and the sexual organ."
"Let us remember that we should not disregard the experience of ages; in the multitude of years these things, if they were good, would certainly not have been unknown; for almost everything has been found out, although sometimes they are not put together; in other cases men do not use the knowledge which they have."
"From what has been said it is now clear that knowing as an attribute of soul cannot be explained by soul's being composed of the elements, and that it is neither sound nor true to speak of soul as moved."
"It is possible, however, to suppose that one member of such a class has a certain attribute and another has not, eg while we may suppose that no even number is prime, we may suppose that some are and some are not."
"For what is to prevent this coming to pass, unless it be impossible?"
"And similarly the solid and the motionless and that which is in motion and the weightless and that which has weight have other peculiar properties."
"For no attribute can attach to them; for even to numbers quality is said to belong after quantity."
"The elders, too, answer to the elders in Crete, who are termed by the Cretans the council."
"For the Idea is, as its supporters say, an individual, and can exist apart; and the formula must consist of words; and he who defines must not invent a word (for it would be unknown), but the established words are common to each of a number of things; these then must apply to something besides the thing defined; eg if one were defining you, he would say 'an animal which is lean' or 'white', or"
"Is it because the possession of a naturally high voice and the singing of high notes are not the same thing, but naturally high voices are always due to weakness because of the inability to set more than a little air in motion, and the little air thus set in motion is carried quickly along?"
"This is why men test the dying by applying something which will cause sneezing, with the idea that, if this does not affect them, their case is indeed desperate."
"The reason is that in man the male is much superior to the female in natural heat, and so the male foetus moves about more than the female, and on account of moving is more liable to injury, for what is young is easily injured since it is weak."
"For different bloods differ in their degrees of thinness or thickness, of clearness or turbidity, of coldness or heat; and this whether we compare the bloods from different parts of the same individual or the bloods of different animals."
"But whereas the velocity of that which comes to a standstill seems always to increase, the velocity of that which is carried violently seems always to decrease: so it will be in a state of rest without having become so."
"So acute is the pain it inflicts that the sword fish will sometimes leap as high out of the water as a dolphin; in fact, it often falls into a boat."
"Always dividing then in this way it turns out that they assume as middle the universal term, and as extremes that which ought to have been the subject of proof and the differentiae."
"We must answer this by starting in the first instance from the principle that, in all products of nature or art, a thing is made by something actually existing out of that which is potentially such as the finished product."
"a man is not white, no man is white"
"But those thinkers are in error who postulate, beside the bodies we have mentioned, a single matter and that a corporeal and separable matter."
"Accordingly, if asked, of which among the parts of the soul memory is a function, we reply: manifestly of that part to which imagination also appertains; and all objects of which there is imagination are in themselves objects of memory, while those which do not exist without imagination are objects of memory incidentally."
"They say that nothing happens by chance, but that everything which we ascribe to chance or spontaneity has some definite cause, eg coming by chance into the market and finding there a man whom one wanted but did not expect to meet is due to one's wish to go and buy in the market."
"For if the terms are so related, necessarily will not belong to C; eg suppose that A is white, swan, man."
"An incisive argument is one which produces the greatest perplexity; for this is the one with the sharpest fang."
"If his character agrees with the charge brought against him or is in contradiction to the accusation which he brings, you must make use of anticipation and say that it is not just or lawful or expedient to judge from an opinion or suspicion before listening to the facts."
"The fact that hoar frost is not found on mountains contributes to prove that these phenomena occur because the vapour does not rise high."
"Is it because numbness is a process of cooling, being due to deprivation of blood and its transference elsewhere?"
"Again, a line is a magnitude; but the putting together of points constitutes no magnitude, because several points put together occupy no more space than one."
"As tragedy is an imitation of personages better than the ordinary man, we should follow the example of good portrait painters, who reproduce the distinctive features of a man, and at the same time, without losing the likeness, make him handsomer than he is."
"So much for the food of animals of the various genera."
"And animals with much moisture are straight haired; for in these hairs the moisture advances as a stream, not in drops."
"For no bone in the body exists as a separate thing in itself, but each is either a portion of what may be considered a continuous whole, or at any rate is linked with the rest by contact and by attachments; so that nature may use adjoining bones either as though they were actually continuous and formed a single bone, or, for purposes of flexure, as though they were two and distinct."
"Why is it that the odours of burning perfumes and of flowers are less sweet scented at a close distance?"
"Lygdamis, the Naxian, having driven certain men into exile, when no one was willing to buy their possessions except at a low price, sold them to the exiles themselves."
"For drunkenness takes place when the heat is in the region of the head."
"being an alien in a city, he does not claim to govern but submits, but only one who does not, being well born and thinking power a great thing."
"Serpents intertwine because of their inaptitude to cast themselves alongside of one another."
"Nor should one suppose that there is anything like them in our usual histories."
"Of these, limited plurality is number, limited length is a line, breadth a surface, depth a solid."
"In general, all the methods described befo of producing concealment are useful also for purposes of contentious argument; for the object of concealment is to avoid detection, and the object of this is to deceive."
"they are the instruments to one another."
"For it will be equal to the stationary leg and also equivalent to the hypotenuse."
"But he to whom things absolutely good are not good is not noble and good, any more than he would be thought to be in health to whom the things that are absolutely healthy are not healthy."
"Consequently if we succeed in demonstrating this, all will have been proved reciprocally."
"And that pleasure is not the best thing, whereas the good is the best thing."
"One element is the food producing class, who are called farmers; a second, the class of artisans who practise the arts without which a city cannot exist of these arts some are absolutely necessary, others contribute to luxury or to the grace of life."
"But all with gills produce refrigeration by taking in water; the Selachia and all other footless animals have gills."
"It seems to belong to the sea because the weight of the salt water makes it remain there, while the sweet, drinkable water which is light is carried up."
"Hence a small disturbance will speedily cause death in old age."
"Of water animals the genus of fishes constitutes a single group apart from the rest, and including many diverse forms."
"All constitutions are found together in the household, both the true and the corrupt forms, for the same thing is true in constitutions as of harmonies."
"And their contraries are associated with the contrary type; the man who is delighted by others' misfortunes is identical with the man who envies others' prosperity."
"Is it because the winter finds a considerable amount of matter in the body"
"as though Reading kai ai praxeis for praxeis."
"therefore each of the units must be prior to the."
"Again, if the causes of substances are causes of everything, still different things have different causes and elements, as was said; the causes of things that are not in the same class, eg of colours, sounds, substances, and quantities, are different except in an analogical sense; and those of things in the same species are different, not in species, but in the sense that the causes of different individuals are different, your matter and form and moving cause being different from mine, while in their universal formula they are the same."
"Further, no one could say why a thing once set in motion should stop anywhere; for why should it stop here rather than here?"
"Indeed that this is so seems clear as follows."
"Why does water appear less white when it is in motion, for instance when there is a ripple?"
"Then since A is transformed into and, there will be a contrariety belonging to A and."
"Thus, for example, both a man and an ox are animals."
"Further, if it is not possible to affirm anything truly, this itself will be false the assertion that there is no true affirmation."
"Hence this as much as any other part must be assigned as a cause of the essence of the animal both in man and in other cases."
"What grows qua growing grows from something into something."
"The same, or nearly the same, objections apply to Plato's later work, the Laws, and therefore we had better examine briefly the constitution which is therein described."
"The peahen lays wind eggs."
"Others affirm that the rule of a master over slaves is contrary to nature, and that the distinction between slave and freeman exists by convention only, and not by nature; and being an interference with nature is therefore unjust."
"The reason is that this is useful for ease in creeping into holes, and for sitting upon their eggs and guarding them."
"Moreover, in certain places it is possible for there to be just one man, but without qualification it is not possible for there to be just one man."
"Some of them even consider it possible that there are several bodies so moving, which are invisible to us owing to the interposition of the earth."
"It is possible also to reduce all deductions to the universal deductions in the first figure."
"Now it is clear that animals do both possess connatural spirit and derive force from this."
"There is indeed one difference between the type of the newly enriched and those who have long been rich: the newly enriched have all the bad qualities mentioned in an exaggerated and worse form to be newlyenriched means, so to speak, no education in riches."
", it is with a difference, eg there is a lot of water, not many waters."
"Such a proof is most effective if everyone has always decided thus; but if not everyone, then at any rate most people; or if all, or most, wise or good men have thus decided, or the actual judges of the present question, or those whose authority they accept, or anyone whose decision they cannot contradict because he has complete control over them, or those See Topics etc."
"To judge from the lives that men lead, most men, and men of the most vulgar type, seem (not without some reason) to identify the good, or happiness, with pleasure; which is the reason why they love the life of enjoyment."
"Now things that face one another from opposite ends of a diameter are locally most distant from one another."
"There is, however, an animal of the sort, if we are to believe Ctesias."
"If therefore the present king seizes Egypt, he also will cross, and therefore we must not let him'."
"one which never fails, such that what comes to be is on each successive occasion smaller than before."
"Goodwill is a friendly sort of relation, but is not identical with friendship; for one may have goodwill both towards people whom one does not know, and without their knowing it, but not friendship."
"That this is so is shown by the fact that its sap is the most pungent of all and by the amount of smoke which it produces when burnt."
"For let the 's in the be simultaneous; yet these are prior to those in the and as the generated them, they generated the 's in the ideal."
"Their alluvium makes the northern seas shallow, while the outer seas are deeper."
"Since the word 'indivisible' has two senses, ie may mean either 'not capable of being divided' or 'not actually divided', there is nothing to prevent thought from thinking of what is undivided, eg when it thinks of a length (which is actually undivided) and that in an undivided time; for the time is divided or undivided in the same manner as the line."
"But yet one must start from that which is barely intelligible but intelligible to oneself, and try to understand what is intel ligible in itself, passing, as has been said, by way of those very things which one understands."
"Identical phenomena are found both in plants and in animals."
"Now each man judges well the things he knows, and of these he is a good judge."
"For arguments about the greatness and smallness of things, the greater and the lesser, and generally great things and small, what we have already said will show the line to take."
"but the opposite ought to be supposed in all the deductions."
"For it is by water in the latter class, by air in the former that refrigeration is effected, and either of these means of performing the function is removed by a change of environment."
"For innocent pleasures are not only in harmony with the end of life, but they also provide relaxation."
"It is very different with the squilla; it has four front legs which are flat on either side, then three thin ones close behind on either side, and the rest of the body is for the most part devoid of feet."
"Or why, when they come into contact, do they not coalesce into one, as drops of water run together when drop touches drop"
"However, the distinction we laid down holds good: if its matter is predominantly water a body is cold"
"Of other tyrannies, that of Hiero and Gelo at Syracuse was the most lasting."
"Likewise, also, in the case of objects widely divergent, the examination of likeness is useful for purposes of definition, eg the sameness of a calm at sea, and windlessness in the air (each being a form of rest), and of a point on a line and the unit in number (each being a principle)."
"It is manifest also that fluid does not pass directly into the bladder and collect there, but goes first into the stomach."
"The season for intercourse is spring."
"All else is the work of education; we learn some things by habit and some by instruction."
"Furthermore, some men and some women produce female offspring and some male, as for instance in the story of Hercules, who among all his two and seventy children is said to have begotten but one girl."
"Further, it blows towards evening owing to the quarter from which it comes; for the sun then approaches that quarter."
"(no one feels shame before small children or animals); nor are we ashamed of the same things before intimates as before strangers, but before the former of what seem genuine faults, before the latter of what seem conventional ones."
"For sometimes men put forward the universal, but do not posit the proposition which is contained in it, either in writing or in discussion: or men put these forward, but omit those through which they are inferred, and invite the concession of others to no purpose."
"At Curium in Cyprus they say there is a species of snake, which has similar power to that of the asp in Egypt, except that, if it bites in the winter, it produces no effect, whether from some other reason, or because when congealed with cold the reptile loses its power of movement, and becomes completely powerless, unless it be warmed."
"In those sanguineous animals, on the other hand, that are not viviparous, the bones present successive slight variations of character."
"Plato even used to object to this class of things as being a geometrical fiction."
"But how will our conclusion work out in the case of the circle and the straight line?"
"And, therefore, although in most cities the laws may be said generally to be in a chaotic state, still, if they aim at anything, they aim at the maintenance of power: thus in Lacedaemon and Crete the system of education and the greater part of the laws are framed with a view to war."
"Or is the other demonstration not demonstration simpliciter in that it comes from about what is more familiar to us?"
"A further difficulty is raised by the fact that all knowledge is of universals and of the 'such', but substance does not belong to universals, but is rather a 'this' and separable, so that if there is knowledge about the first principles, the question arises, how are we to suppose the first principle to be substance?"
"In this sense then, but not primarily, a thing can be in itself, namely, as white is in body (for the visible surface is in body), and science is in the mind."
"Similarly if the conviction in the relation of the middle term to the extreme should be produced by several similar cases."
"It is also a problem, what is the organ of touch; is it or is it not the flesh (including what in certain animals is analogous to flesh)?"
"And vengeance previously taken on one person puts an end to even greater anger"
"It has been now stated why superfoetation is not found in some animals at all, why it is found in others which sometimes bring the later embryos to birth and sometimes not, and why some such animals are inclined to sexual intercourse while others are not."
"For excellence, though it may have many other functions, as it has, has this among the most special, to be able to make a right use of these and the like goods when they are there."
"Nor because things change does it follow that they are not by nature."
"Or perhaps it is not impossible for the same differentia to be used of two genera neither of which contains the other, and we ought to add 'if they do not both fall under the same genus'."
"Distinguish as many uses as are required: eg if we want to establish a view, we should bring forward such uses as admit that view, and should divide them only into those which also are required for the establishment of our case; whereas if we want to overthrow a view, we should bring forward all that do not admit that view, and leave the rest aside."
"We must probably also at the same time state the causes of respiration as well, since in some cases living and the reverse depend on this."
"Presumably, then, it is well not to seek to have as many friends as possible, but as many as are enough for the purpose of living together; for it would seem actually impossible to be a great friend to many people."
"The width of the inhabited world at the greatest extent of its mainland is rather less than stades, so the best geographers say, and its length about stades."
"We shall establish friendly relations with those who are of like character to our own and have the same interests, and with whom we are obliged to co operate in matters of great importance; for such friendship is most likely to be permanent."
"he calls the sun white and hot, and the earth heavy and hard."
"the lesser heat contained in the exhalation."
"Thus in things that derive their motion from themselves, eg all animals, the motion is natural."
"it is exceptionally fleet of foot, owing to the suppleness of its frame and its capacity for leaping."
"Since contraries are other in form, and the perishable and the imperishable are contraries (for privation is a determinate incapacity), the perishable and the imperishable must be different in kind."
"Next after these come the stomach, the loins, the sexual parts, and the haunches; then the thigh and shin; and, lastly, the feet."
"What sort of soul will this be?"
"Both these are in level, not in elevated places."
"But Phaleas will probably reply that this is precisely what he means; and that, in his opinion, there ought to be in states, not only equal property, but equal education."
"The following is an instance of care taken to put the article in the right place: 'This man is wronging this man'."
"If we observe these rules, our narrative will be clear."
"But, whenever people are troubled with lousy heads, they are less than ordinarily troubled with headache."
"Moreover there is the putting of one's questions alternately, whether one has more than one argument leading to the same conclusion, or whether one has arguments to show both that something is so, and that it is not so; for the result is that he has to be on his guard at the same time either against more than one line, or against contrary lines, of argument."
"Those engaged in struggles of other kinds act in the same way, and so when fighting and getting the worst of it often refuse to come to terms."
"Thus they do move to the centre of the earth, but accidentally, in virtue of the fact that the earth's centre lies at the centre of the whole."
"So that if an act is painful it is forced on us, and if forced it is painful."
"If, then, the exercise of the faculty of sight is seeing, that of the auditory faculty, hearing, and, in general that of the faculty of sense perception, perceiving; and if there are some perceptions common to the senses, such as figure, magnitude, motion, andc., while there are others, as colour, sound, taste, which are special; and further, if all creatures, when the eyes are closed in sleep, are unable to see, and the analogous statement is true of the other senses, it is clear that we perceive nothing when asleep"
"The bonito has the gall bladder stretched alongside the gut and equalling it in length, and often a double fold of it."
"Because they attacked Sardis with the Eretrians; for that initiated the change."
"This opinion was due to the rarity of the occurrence"
"The type of character produced by wealth lies on the surface for all to see."
"Among questions of a mechanical kind are included those which are connected with the lever."
"Is it because those who have excretions and moisture in their bodies are more inclined to pass urine?"
"At the Euphrates they say that this especially happens; for that many are seen about the edges of the river, swimming also towards either bank; so that while seen in the evening on this side, at daybreak they appear on the other side; and that they refrain from biting such of the Syrians as are taking their repose, but do not spare the Greeks."
"In cases in which the aim is explanatory eg why does he walk about?"
"Therefore men keep their friends from participation in their calamities; their own suffering is enough, that they may not show themselves studying their own interest, and choosing joy at the cost of a friend's pain,. ."
"Having made these distinctions, we say that the work of a thing is also the work of its excellence, only not in the same sense, eg a shoe is the work both of the art of cobbling and of the action of cobbling."
"From these facts then it is clear that it is correctly said that friendship is a stable thing, just as happiness is a thing sufficient in itself."
"Discrete are number and language; continuous are lines, surfaces, bodies, and also, besides these, time and place."
"Since we recognize two kinds of exhalation, one moist, the other dry, it is clear that the latter must be recognized as the source of phenomena like those we are concerned with."
"In such cases in those, that is, in which the substratum owes its heat to an external influence it is plain that cold is not a mere privation, but a fact of nature."
"The commission of crime you must declare to be confined to wicked men, while error and misfortune in action are not peculiar to oneself but are common to all men, including those who are sitting in judgement upon you."
"Of the first, moderate possessions and occupation; of the second, habits of temperance; as to the third, if any desire pleasures which depend on themselves, they will find the satisfaction of their desires nowhere but in philosophy; for all other pleasures we are dependent on others."
"Similarly one must select those attributes which the subject follows as wholes, for the reason given."
"Very like is it to that which happens in times of war, when the trumpet sounds to the army; then each soldier hears its note, and one takes up his shield, another dons his breast plate; another puts on his greaves or his helmet or his swordbelt; one puts the bit in his horse's mouth, another mounts his chariot, another passes along the watchword"
"Some things cause each other reciprocally, eg hard work causes fitness and vice versa, but again not in the same way, but the one as end, the other as the principle of motion."
"For if two right angles belong not as isosceles but as triangle, one who knows that the isosceles has two right angles will know it less well as such than one who knows that a triangle has two right angles."
"Not only the above mentioned facts are causes of seeing keenly or the reverse, but also the nature of the skin upon what is called the pupil."
"Besides, chance has no place in that which is natural, and what happens everywhere and in every case is no matter of chance."
"Now, since we are here speaking of the best form of government, ie that under which the state will be most happy (and happiness, as has been already said, cannot exist without excellence), it clearly follows that in the state which is best governed and possesses men who are just absolutely, and not merely relatively to the principle of the constitution, the citizens must not lead the life of artisans or tradesmen, for such a life is ignoble and inimical to excellence."
"If it is claimed neither that anything must be proved from all of them, nor that they are different in the sense of being different for each science, it remains to consider whether the principles of everything are of the same kind, but this depends on these and this on these."
"If our conclusions are just, not only should cities have walls, but care should be taken to make them ornamental, as well as useful for warlike purposes, and adapted to resist modern inventions."
"For the second predicate will attach to it potentially, but the first actually."
"Fire of itself dissolves anything which is solidified in the body, just as the sun melts the snow."
"An illustration of the case where one can oneself do one thing and another is: 'I have not only achieved this for you, but also, when Timotheus intended to make an expedition against you, I prevented him'."
"Hence it is divisible: for the terminal point and that which it terminates are different from one another."
"in the Cyclopses of Timotheus and Philoxenus."
"For the supposed intermediate will be Air and Fire when a pair of contrasted qualities is added to it; but, since one of every two contrary qualities is a privation, the intermediate never can exist as some thinkers assert the 'Boundless' or the 'Environing' exists in isolation."
"Now the constellations included in the circle of the milky way move; and so does the sun, the object to which our sight is reflected; but we stand still."
"This last will happen where the penalty is either imperceptible or slight."
"Therefore we need only speak of these parts, since they are primary and all else consequential; and in so doing we shall be following the advice which we gave to those who attribute heaviness to the presence of plenum and lightness to that of void."
"Is it because the rudder, too, is a lever and the steersman works it?"
"It would seem from what has been said that he can do this better if he makes himself capable of legislating."
"When, therefore, a eunuch changes in size, he does not change into the likeness of the male; for the change is not in the direction of physical perfection, but eunuchs increase in size only in respect of height."
"It is for this end that money has been introduced, and it becomes in a sense an intermediate; for it measures all things, and therefore the excess and the defect how many shoes are equal to a house or to a given amount of food."
"; for juice of this kind coagulates the milk in the stomach of the sucklings."
"Why is it that if one plants pumpkins or cucumbers near a well and, when they are ripe, lets them down into the well and covers them over, they remain green for a whole year?"
"If on the other hand it is not as they say, with what sort of things must the mathematician be supposed to deal?"
"But all these derive from the dry and moist we mentioned first."
"Still not all things which are prior in formula are prior in substance."
"This then when it putrefies is a cause of evil odour in living creatures and in decaying bodies."
"This method of distinction makes all judgement relative."
"Let be the primary time in which that which is in motion is in motion; and (as all time is divisible) let it be divided at."
"For nature, as already said, uses the parts which are common to all animals for many special purposes, and this of her own accord."
"The actual discharge does not take place within the uterus as some think, the mouth being too narrow, but it is in the region in front of this, where the female discharges the moisture found in some cases, that the male emits the semen."
"But, as I was saying, there must be a limit."
"Why is there a house?"
"although not enough to make up the full complement of a state, whose excellence is so pre eminent that the excellence or the political capacity of all the rest admit of no comparison with his or theirs, he or they can be no longer regarded as part of a state; for justice will not be done to the superior, if he is reckoned only as the equal of those who are so far inferior to him in excellence and in political capacity."
"All, however, that these thinkers do is to describe the specific characteristics of the soul; they do not try to determine anything about the body which is to contain it, as if it were possible, as in the Pythagorean myths, that any soul could be clothed in any body an absurd view, for each body seems to have a form and shape of its own."
"The best working bee is small, round, and speckled:"
"Perishableness then must either be the substance or be present in the substance of each perishable thing."
"The one has long legs and keeps watch while swinging downwards from the web, so that its prey may not be frightened off, but may strike upon the web's upper surface (because of its size, the spider cannot easily hide itself); the less awkwardly formed one lies in wait on the top, using a little hole for a lurking place."
"The digits, again, by being short would be less liable to injury."
"Why do those roses in which the centres are rough smell sweeter than those in which they are smooth?"
"Therefore it is plain that the other senses as well, and the other objects of sense, will exist apart; for why should one set of them do so and another not?"
"We must recognize, as we have said, and lay down first, that white colour on a black surface or seen through a black medium gives red;"
"For instance, some groups have lungs, others have no lung, but an organ analogous to a lung in its place; some have blood, others have no blood, but a fluid analogous to blood, and with the same office."
"Now any term that belongs to everything separates off the given object from absolutely nothing, while any that belongs to all the things that fall under the same genus does not separate it off from the things contained in the same genus."
"Almost every plant falls under one of these names."
"He would have gone to such and such a place for the purpose of getting the money, if he had known."
"There are differences in the feet of quadrupeds."
"Is it because the moister plants are not dry enough, while the drier plants must not be further dried?"
"Because good occurs in all the categories in that of substance, quality, quantity, time, relation, and generally in all."
"For neither will the doctor know the time of the good in navigation nor the pilot Reading ho ti for hoti, twice."
"Not every sound, as we said, made by an animal is voice (even with the tongue we may merely make a sound which is not voice, or without the tongue as in coughing); what produces the impact must have soul in and must be accompanied by an act of imagination,"
"For suppose that a body of four points possesses weight."
"Further, how could what has no parts think of what has parts, or what has parts think of what has none?"
"All the homogeneous bodies consist of the elements described, as matter, but their essence is determined by their definition."
"If, then, time is the number of motion or itself a kind of motion, it follows that, if there is always time, motion must also be eternal."
"It is clear then that what comes to be will come to be from these elements."
"Then the line of the chest, is at right angles to the thigh, and the thigh at right angles to the lower leg, when a man is seated in this way."
"The outside or back of the hand is sinewy, and has no specific designation."
"So much for the winds, their origin and nature and the properties common to them all or peculiar to each."
"Reading kai autous kat' ison for kai auton ison."
"Those who had no share in the government created a disturbance, until first the elder brothers, and then the younger, were admitted; for in some places father and son, in others, elder and younger brothers, do not hold office together."
"But if this is false, if semen does not come off from the whole body, it is clear that the reason assigned cannot be the cause of likeness and unlikeness."
"That there is no sense in addition to the five sight, hearing, smell, taste, touch may be established by the following considerations"
"The details of growth in the testacea are similar."
"In the field of social life those who make the giving of pleasure or pain their object in associating with others have been described; let us now describe those who pursue truth or falsehood alike in words and deeds and in the claims they put forward."
"For your friendship with this man was not from the first founded on excellence, so that it is not extraordinary that he should do nothing of what excellence requires."
"Say that it was Odysseus, sacker of cities, implying that Odysseus would not have been avenged unless the Cyclops perceived both by whom and for what he had been blinded."
"Change within the same kind from a lesser to a greater or from a greater to a lesser degree is alteration; for it is motion either from a contrary or to a contrary,"
"Neither is it an oligarchical office; for the wives of the oligarchs are too grand."
"Now the scar occupies only a small depth of the skin on the surface, but the blood, which is black because it is watery and hot, shows through the skin and gives the scar also a black appearance."
"Hence each of the genera as well is true of that of which the differentia is true; and it clearly follows that the species must be in two genera neither of which contains the other."
"The male does not emit semen at all in some animals, and where he does this is no part of the resulting embryo;"
"For Plato differs from Leucippus inasmuch as the indivisibles of Leucippus are solids, while those of Plato are planes, and are characterized by an infinite variety of figures, while the characterizing figures employed by Plato are limited in number though both hold that the elements are indivisible and are determined by figures."
"Generally speaking the change which occurs when a warm, dry summer follows immediately on a wet spring,"
"second, the state of mind of wrongdoers; third, the kind of persons who are wronged, and their condition."
"That then such a power in the soul as has been described, ie that called appetite, originates movement is clear."
"it is necessary for it to happen."
"You should look, therefore, and see whether neither of these things is true of the given genus; for if the genera are subordinate neither the one to the other nor both to the same thing, then what is given could not be the genus."
"Does the same thing happen as in the body, viz."
"Are they among those plants which have to produce something other than stalk?"
