"x"
"By a bye law, no British manufactures could be exported to Turkey but in the general ships of the company; and as those ships sailed always from the port of London, this restriction confined the trade to that expensive port, and the traders to those who lived in London and in its neighbourhood."
"That unprosperous race of men, commonly called men of letters, are pretty much in the situation which lawyers and physicians probably would be in, upon the foregoing supposition."
"If, for such a bill, no more additional money was paid than what was sufficient to compensate the expense of the French coinage, the real exchange might be at par between the two countries; their debts and credits might mutually compensate one another, while the computed exchange was considerably in favour of France."
"The Scotch banks, no doubt, paid all of them very dearly for their own imprudence and inattention: but the Bank of England paid very dearly, not only for its own imprudence, but for the much greater imprudence of almost all the Scotch banks."
"They have suspected, probably, that the lessor and lessee, in order to defraud the public revenue, might combine to conceal the real terms of the lease."
"But as they are charged with the maintenance of forts and garrisons, they may, for that purpose export from Great Britain to Africa goods and stores of different kinds."
"Suppose now the tax to be seventy pounds of gold per annum on each mine worked; and consequently that No. alone could be profitably worked; it is evident that all rent would immediately disappear."
"All the rest of the produce properly belonged to him too, either as rent for his land, or as profit upon this paltry capital."
"The first adventurers of all the other nations of Europe who attempted to make settlements in America, were animated by the like chimerical views; but they were not equally successful."
"In this book we shall consider the former, namely what factors determine the sum which will be spent on consumption when employment is at a given level; and in Book we shall proceed to the factors which determine the sum which will be devoted to investment."
"Yet employment, incomes and prices cannot help moving in such a way that in the new situation someone does choose to hold the additional money."
"Every year they found themselves under the necessity of coining nearly the same quantity of gold as they had coined the year before; and from the continual rise in the price of gold bullion, in consequence of the continual wearing and clipping of the coin, the expense of this great annual coinage became, every year, greater and greater."
"The reason of the new doctrines recommended them to some, their novelty to many; the hatred and contempt of the established clergy to a still greater number: but the zealous, passionate, and fanatical, though frequently coarse and rustic eloquence, with which they were almost everywhere inculcated, recommended them to by far the greatest number."
"one tenth less of hats, shoes, and every other commodity, and as he could with his former amount of savings employ fewer labourers at the increased wages, and purchase fewer raw materials at the increased prices, he would be in no better situation than if his money profits had been really diminished in amount, and every thing had remained at its former price."
"Say himself gives a similar statement of value, for he says that utility is the foundation of value, that commodities are only desirable, because they are in some way useful, but that their value depends not on their utility, not on the degree in which they are desired, but on the quantity of labour necessary to procure them."
"In all the great kingdoms of Europe, perhaps, the greater part of it may ultimately depend upon the produce of the land: but that dependency is neither so immediate nor so evident."
"For example, money wages in Great Britain during the turmoil and uncertainty and wide price fluctuations of the decade were stable within a range of percent, whereas real wages fluctuated by more than percent."
"Whilst the land yields abundantly, wages may temporarily rise, and the producers may consume more than their accustomed proportion; but the stimulus which will thus be given to population, will speedily reduce the labourers to their usual consumption."
"The revenue of every established church, such parts of it excepted as may arise from particular lands or manors, is a branch, it ought to be observed, of the general revenue of the state, which is thus diverted to a purpose very different from the defence of the state."
"Our present object is to discover what determines at any time the national income of a given economic system and (which is almost the same thing) the amount of its employment; which means in a study so complex as economics, in which we cannot hope to make completely accurate generalisations, the factors whose changes mainly determine our quaesitum."
"A very poor man may be said, in some sense, to have a demand for a coach and six; he might like to have it; but his demand is not an effectual demand, as the commodity can never be brought to market in order to satisfy it."
"There are some sorts of rude produce which nature has rendered a kind of appendages to other sorts; so that the quantity of the one which any country can afford, is necessarily limited by that of the other."
"Or, once more, it is suggested that a boom is characterised by 'capital consumption', which presumably means negative net investment, ie by an excessive propensity to consume."
"In those duties were all except the old subsidy of tonnage and poundage, which was now left out of this fund altogether still further continued, for the same purpose, to the first of August and were called the fifth general mortgage or fund."
"Mr Kahn's multiplier is a little different from this, being what we may call the employment multiplier designated by k', since it measures the ratio of the increment of total employment which is associated with a given increment of primary employment in the investment industries."
"The demand for labour increases with the increase of stock, whatever be its profits; and after these are diminished, stock may not only continue to increase, but to increase much faster than before."
"In all farms too distant from any town to carry manure from it, that is, in the far greater part of those of every extensive country, the quantity of well cultivated land must be in proportion to the quantity of manure which the farm itself produces; and this, again, must be in proportion to the stock of cattle which are maintained upon it."
"the hats, the cloth, and the corn, will each be increased in value."
"But these two categories of 'frictional' unemployment and 'voluntary' unemployment are comprehensive."
"If the quantity of the commodity taxed could not be diminished, if the capital of the farmer or of the hatter for instance, could not be withdrawn to other employments, it would be of no consequence that their profits were reduced below the general level by means of a tax; unless the demand for their commodities should increase, they would never be able to elevate the market price of corn and hats up to the increased natural price."
"There is no consecutive discussion of the rate of interest in the works of Marshall, Edgeworth or Professor Pigou,<U+F8E7>nothing more than a few obiter dicta."
"The burghers naturally hated and feared the lords."
"For the short period supply price is the sum of the marginal factor cost and the marginal user cost."
"In the first place, it expresses the relevant facts in terms of the units to which we have decided to restrict ourselves, without introducing any of the units which have a dubious quantitative character."
"Though pig and bar iron, too, have been put among the enumerated commodities, yet as, when imported from America, they are exempted from considerable duties to which they are subject when imported front"
"But if he had been at liberty to sell his whole crop to a corn merchant as fast as he could thresh it out, his whole capital might have returned immediately to the land, and have been employed in buying more cattle, and hiring more servants, in order to improve and cultivate it better."
"The ancient policy of Europe was, over and above all this, unfavourable to the improvement and cultivation of land, whether carried on by the proprietor or by the farmer; first, by the general prohibition of the exportation of corn, without a special licence, which seems to have been a very universal regulation; and, secondly, by the restraints which were laid upon the inland commerce, not only of corn, but of almost every other part of the produce of the farm, by the absurd laws against engrossers, regraters, and forestallers, and by the privileges of fairs and markets."
"He sells, therefore, his rude produce for money, with which he can purchase, wherever it is to be had, the manufactured produce he has occasion for."
"of which. is retained for profit, and."
"It follows that there are three matters to investigate: (i) the relation of changes in to and, (ii)"
"The impossibility of taxing the people, in proportion to their revenue, by any capitation, seems to have given occasion to the invention of taxes upon consumable commodities."
"The South Sea company, as long as they continued to be a trading company, had an exclusive privilege confirmed by act of parliament; as have likewise the present united company of merchants trading to the East Indies."
"but this is precisely the case of all manufacturers and capitalists; the rise of wages affects them all."
"In the progress of industry, commercial nations have found it convenient to coin several different metals into money; gold for larger payments, silver for purchases of moderate value, and copper, or some other coarse metal, for those of still smaller consideration, They have always, however, considered one of those metals as more peculiarly the measure of value than any of the other two; and this preference seems generally to have been given to the metal which they happen first to make use of as the instrument of commerce."
"It was not understood at their first establishment, and was not the motive, either of that establishment, or of the discoveries which gave occasion to it; and the nature, extent, and limits of that utility, are not, perhaps, well understood at this day."
"Those duties, when applied to such purposes, are most properly imposed according to the bulk or weight of the goods."
"The ruin of their credit, and the miscarriage of their projects, they foresee, would too often be the consequence."
"The affair was partly a lottery, though with the ultimate result largely governed by whether the abilities and character of the managers were above or below the average."
"the person who shall be convicted of enticing any artificer, of or in any of the manufactures of Great Britain, to go into any foreign parts, in order to practise or teach his trade, is liable, for the first offence, to be fined in any sum not exceeding one hundred pounds, and to three months imprisonment, and until the fine shall be paid; and for the second offence, to be fined in any sum, at the discretion of the court, and to imprisonment for twelve months, and until the fine shall be paid."
"In computing either the gross or the neat revenue of any society, we must always, from the whole annual circulation of money and goods, deduct the whole value of the money, of which not a single farthing can ever make any part of either."
"This practice was called raising money by circulation."
"Yet, in truth, there is no remedy except to throw over the axiom of parallels and to work out a non Euclidean geometry."
"they advance, the legal interest till the bill shall become due."
"In a year of sudden and extraordinary plenty, there are funds in the hands of many of the employers of industry, sufficient to maintain and employ a greater number of industrious people than had been employed the year before; and this extraordinary number cannot always be had."
"As through the greater part of Europe, the church, so in many different countries of Asia, the state, is principally supported by a land tax, proportioned not to the rent, but to the produce of the land."
"The high rate of profit seems everywhere to destroy that parsimony which, in other circumstances, is natural to the character of the merchant."
"The usual instrument of commerce having lost its value, no exchanges could be made but either by barter or upon credit."
"They are supposed, however, many of them, to be a good deal richer than the greater part of the former, and not quire so rich as many of the latter: but the rate of their profit is commonly much lower than that of the former, and a good deal higher than that of the latter."
"The person who, by making a deposit of bullion, obtains both a bank credit and a receipt, pays his bills of exchange as they become due, with his bank credit; and either sells or keeps his receipt, according as he judges that the price of bullion is likely to rise or to fall."
"It was put upon the same footing with gold and silver mines, which, without a special clause in the charter, were never supposed to be comprehended in the general grant of the lands, though mines of lead, copper, tin, and coal were, as things of smaller consequence."
"The error of Adam Smith proceeds in the first place from supposing, that all taxes paid by the farmer must necessarily fall on the landlord, in the shape of a deduction from rent."
"The most sanguinary are always to be found in countries where the greater part of the public revenue is in farm; the mildest, in countries where it is levied under the immediate inspection of the sovereign."
"But it is levied only upon those which, in the actual state of things, are by that assessment under taxed; and it is applied to the relief of those which, by the same assessment, are over taxed."
"It is probable however that all the effects on the value of the metals, resulting from the discovery of America have long ceased, and if any fall has of late years taken place in their value"
"If from a consideration of these circumstances, the profits of stock should be so adjusted that in one trade they were in another and in another percent."
"the voice of nineteenth century England speaking to the eighteenth?"
"Such ceremonials are not only real taxes paid by the rich colonists upon those particular occasions, but they serve to introduce among them the habit of vanity and expense upon all other occasions."
"By those regulations, for example, the merchant of Hamburg must send the linen which he destines for the American market to London, and he must bring back from thence the tobacco which he destines for the German market; because he can neither send the one directly to America, nor bring the other directly from thence."
"The disproportion would have been too great between the value of the accessory and that of the principal."
"The fattening of ortolans, birds of passage which arrive lean in the country, is said to be so in some parts of France."
"The aggregate current return to capital has no direct relationship to its marginal efficiency; whilst its current return at the margin of production (i.e. the return to capital which enters into the supply price of output) is its marginal user cost, which also has no close connection with its marginal efficiency."
"Consumable commodities are either necessaries or luxuries."
"The agreement of the market and natural prices of all commodities, depends at all times on the facility with which the supply can be increased or diminished."
"In our North American colonies, the plantations have constantly followed either the sea coast or the banks of the navigable rivers, and have scarce anywhere extended themselves to any considerable distance from both."
"This event was the great debasement of the silver coin, by clipping and wearing."
"Whether the interest be or be not paid, the country will neither be richer nor poorer."
"The price of superfine cloth, I have been assured, on the contrary, has, within these five and twenty or thirty years, risen somewhat in proportion to its quality, owing, it was said, to a considerable rise in the price of the material, which consists altogether of Spanish wool."
"In Cochin China, the finest white sugar generally sells for three piastres the quintal, about thirteen shillings and sixpence of our money, as we are told by Mr Poivre Voyages d'un Philosophe."
"But the loss occasioned by the negligence, profusion, and malversation of the servants of the company, had probably been a tax much heavier than all those duties."
"As the capital of the landlord or farmer is more secure than that of the manufacturer, so the capital of the manufacturer, being at all times more within his view and command, is more secure than that of the foreign merchant."
"The employing a greater number of men would enable us neither to add a man to our army and navy, nor to contribute one guinea more in taxes."
"The successful war which began in gave Great Britain the same exclusive trade to those countries which France had enjoyed before."
"It is, besides, the half way house, if one may say so, between Europe and the East Indies, at which almost every European ship makes some stay, both in going and returning."
"But if by the policy of the monetary authority we mean the terms on which it will increase or decrease the quantity of money, ie the rate of interest at which it will, either by a change in the volume of discounts or by open market operations, increase or decrease its assets<U+F8E7>which is what Ricardo expressly does mean in the above"
"It regulates the money price of labour, which must always be such as to enable the labourer to purchase a quantity of corn sufficient to maintain him and his family, either in the liberal, moderate, or scanty manner, in which the advancing, stationary, or declining, circumstances of the society, oblige his employers to maintain him."
"Utility then is not the measure of exchangeable value."
"This restless desire on the part of all the employers of stock, to quit a less profitable for a more advantageous business, has a strong tendency to equalize the rate of profits of all, or to fix them in such proportions, as may in the estimation of the parties, compensate for any advantage which one may have, or may appear to have over the other."
"In France, the stamp duties are not much complained of."
"But I have thought it important, not only to explain my own point of view, but also to show in what respects it departs from the prevailing theory."
"When a person derives his subsistence from one employment, which does not occupy the greater part of his time, in the intervals of his leisure he is often willing to work at another for less wages than would otherwise suit the nature of the employment."
"We shall call the unit in which the quantity of employment is measured the labour unit; and the moneywage of a labour unit we shall call the wage unit."
"The unfunded, exclusive of a large civil list debt, to."
"In all these calculations I have been desirous only to elucidate the principle, and it is scarcely necessary to observe, that my whole basis is assumed at random, and merely for the purpose of exemplification."
"It would follow from this that there are only four possible means of increasing employment:"
"and when the price of the first was."
"The military force of the German and Scythian nations, who established themselves upon ruins of the western empire, continued for some time to be of the same kind in their new settlements, as it had been in their original country."
"This price, however, was probably below the average market price, the obligation to deliver their wheat at this rate being considered as a tax upon the Sicilian farmers."
"The same observations apply mutatis mutandis to the case of a boom."
"It could not raise the wages of labour, without throwing the final payment of the tax upon the superior ranks of people."
"The completeness of the Ricardian victory is something of a curiosity and a mystery."
"He entertained no doubt but that they were the extremity of those which had been described by Marco Polo, and that they were not very distant from the Ganges, or from the countries which had been conquered by Alexander."
"Both their annuity and trading stocks had, by this time, been reduced more than two millions each, by several different payments from government; so that this fourth amounted only to."
"The expense of defending the society, and that of supporting the dignity of the chief magistrate, are both laid out for the general benefit of the whole society."
"bought a white nightingale, as a present for the empress Agrippina, at the price of six thousand sestertii, equal to about fifty pounds of our present money; and that Asinius Celer Lib. ."
"This high price, indeed, seems to have been principally owing to the dye."
"This is only another way of saying that, when he purchases an investment, the American is attaching his hopes, not so much to its prospective yield, as to a favourable change in the conventional basis of valuation, ie that he is, in the above sense, a speculator."
"But the great object of the political economy of every country, is to increase the riches and power of that country."
"The expense of the administration of justice, too, may no doubt be considered as laid out for the benefit of the whole society."
"no other than the assertion that the most desert moors in Norway and Scotland produce some sort of pasture for cattle, of which the milk and the increase are always more than sufficient, not only to maintain all the labour necessary for tending them, and to pay the ordinary profit to the farmer, or owner of the herd or flock, but to afford some small rent to the landlord."
"It certainly is so, wherever the interest of the general, and that of the principal officers, are not necessarily connected with the support of the constitution of the state."
"In many parts of Scotland and Wales it affords none."
"The revenue of such a man can regularly pass through his hands only once in a year."
"The nature of the evil points out the remedy."
"A highway, a bridge, a navigable canal, for example, may, in most cases, be both made add maintained by a small toll upon the carriages which make use of them; a harbour, by a moderate port duty upon the tonnage of the shipping which load or unload in it."
"A boat fishery, therefore, seems to be the mode of fishing best adapted to the peculiar situation of Scotland, the fishers carrying the herrings on shore as fast as they are taken, to be either cured or consumed fresh."
"The traites, which correspond to our customs, divide the kingdom into three great parts; first, the provinces subject to the tariff of which are called the provinces of the five great farms, and under which are comprehended Picardy, Normandy, and the greater part of the interior provinces of the kingdom; secondly, the provinces subject to the tariff of which are called the provinces reckoned foreign, and under which are comprehended the greater part of the frontier provinces; and, thirdly, those provinces which are said to be treated as foreign, or which, because they are allowed a free commerce with foreign countries, are, in their commerce with the other provinces of France, subjected to the same duties as other foreign countries."
"Their value is wholly independent of the quantity of labour originally necessary to produce them, and varies with the varying wealth and inclinations of those who are desirous to possess them."
"Not only half the old subsidy, but the second twenty five percent."
"The annual labour of every nation is the fund which originally supplies it with all the necessaries and conveniencies of life which it annually consumes, and which consist always either in the immediate produce of that labour, or in what is purchased with that produce from other nations."
"It can never hurt either the consumer or the producer; on the contrary, it must tend to make the retailers both sell cheaper and buy dearer, than if the whole trade was monopolized by one or two persons."
"This is evidently the smallest share with which the tenant can content himself, without being a loser, and the landlord seldom means to leave him any more."
"The performance of this duty requires, too, very different degrees of expense in the different periods of society."
"But though in many respects dependent upon the laws and policy, this proportion seems to be little affected by the riches or poverty of that society, by its advancing, stationary, or declining condition, but to remain the same, or very nearly the same, in all those different states."
"The subjects of every state ought to contribute towards the support of the government, as nearly as possible, in proportion to their respective abilities; that is, in proportion to the revenue which they respectively enjoy under the protection of the state."
"That trade, too, is generally so simple and uniform, as to give little exercise to the understanding; while, at the same time, their labour is both so constant and so severe, that it leaves them little leisure and less inclination to apply to, or even to think of any thing else."
"nor the produce of the labour necessary for fashioning those materials into the proper form, can ever make any part of it."
"to be divided between himself and his always equal number of labourers; in proportion therefore as they get more, he must retain less."
"Secondly, land is a subject which cannot be removed; whereas stock easily may."
"Their exclusive charter has not been confirmed by act of parliament."
"The greater part of the country must probably have been cultivated before the reign of Elizabeth; and a very great part of it still remains uncultivated, and the cultivation of the far greater part much inferior to what it might be, The law of England, however, favours agriculture, not only indirectly, by the protection of commerce, but by several direct encouragements."
"The following argument of."
"It is, even in this case, however, very considerable."
"To grow corn would neither require more labour nor more capital, and, consequently, if the profits of the farmer's stock were before only equal to the profits of the stock of other traders, they will, after the rise of price, be considerably above them."
"For the first seven years, it was to be at the rate of for every hundred pounds value; for the second, at and for the third, at."
"to make the same mistake himself by taking as his assumption that 'at the outset nothing has happened to non wage earners money income', which, as he has just shown, is only valid if the quantity of employment does not remain unaltered which is the very point under discussion"
"At the same time I believe that the definition which I have given above is fairly close to what Marshall intended to mean by the term."
"demand,<U+F8E7>it is a net diminution of such demand."
"In this extraordinary case, the public interest requires that some stock should be withdrawn from those employments which, in ordinary cases, are more advantageous, and turned towards one which, in ordinary cases, is less advantageous to the public; and, in this extraordinary case, the natural interests and inclinations of men coincide as exactly with the public interests as in all other ordinary cases, and lead them to withdraw stock from the near, and to turn it towards the distant employments."
"The same thing may be said of the drawbacks upon the re exportation of foreign goods imported, which, in Great Britain, generally amount to by much the largest part of the duty upon importation."
"To all of them they afforded a market for some part either of their rude or manufactured produce, and, consequently, gave some encouragement to the industry and improvement of all."
"This produce, how great soever, can never be infinite, but must have certain limits."
"A brief summary of the theory of employment to be worked out in the course of the following chapters"
"The materials of lodging cannot always be transported to so great a distance as those of clothing, and do not so readily become an object of foreign commerce."
"For since the tax falls unequally, and peculiarly on his profits, he would have less motive to devote his capital to the land, than to employ it in some other trade, unless the price of raw produce were raised."
"The first invention of such beautiful machines, indeed, and even that of some of the instruments employed in making them, must no doubt have been the work of deep thought and long time, and may justly be considered as among the happiest efforts of human ingenuity."
"The first may, without any loss, employ a great deal of his time in martial exercises; the second may employ some part of it; but the last cannot employ a single hour in them without some loss, and his attention to his own interest naturally leads him to neglect them altogether."
"Thus if there is no surplus of specialised or practised labour and the use of less suitable labour involves a higher labour cost per unit of output, this means that the rate at which the return from the equipment diminishes as employment increases is more rapid than it would be if there were such a surplus."
"All sellers are inevitably, and by the meaning of the word, buyers."
"In the future pages of this work, then, whenever I speak of the rent of land, I wish to be understood as speaking of that compensation, which is paid to the owner of land for the use of its original and indestructible powers."
"Before the reformation of the gold coin, the price of standard gold bullion in the market had, for many years, been upwards of."
"The women return to their parents, and commonly spin, in order to make clothes for themselves and their families."
"Both together amount to."
", a decrease in spending will tend to lower the rate of interest and an increase in investment to raise it."
"These are always conducted with the utmost silence and secrecy till the moment of execution; and when the workmen yield, as they sometimes do without resistance, though severely felt by them, they are never heard of by other people."
"If the monetary authority deals only in short term debts, we have to consider what influence the price, actual and prospective, of short term debts exercises on debts of longer maturity."
"The grcater, moreover, the consumption for which we have provided in advance, the more difficult it is to find something further to provide for in advance, and the greater our dependence on present consumption as a source of demand."
"on an increased capital, and therefore his profits would conform to the altered rate of those of the farmer."
"Merchants engaged in the hazardous projects of trade, all tremble at the thoughts of being obliged, at all times, to expose the real state of their circumstances."
"the same law which gave a bounty upon the exportation of British and Irish linen, of which the price did not exceed."
"He feels that an artificer is the servant of his customers, from whom he derives his subsistence; but that a planter who cultivates his own land, and derives his necessary subsistence from the labour of his own family, is really a master, and independent of all the world."
"per week, equivalent to percent per annum."
"That of Holland was meant to be a tax upon the capital."
"Though the colonies should, in this case, have no representatives in the British parliament, yet, if we may judge by experience, there is no probability that the parliamentary requisition would be unreasonable."
"It essentially depends on the habits and customs of the people."
"That of the manufacturing workmanship diminishes, perhaps, in all of them without exception."
"By being brought from the coffers of the bank, besides, it lost all the other advantages of bank money; its security, its easy and safe transferability, its use in paying foreign bills of exchange."
"Part of them, linen from Germany and Holland, for example, is returned to the colonies for their particular consumption."
"The possession, even of such farmers, however, was long extremely precarious, and still is so in many parts of Europe."
"Unless the price of the corn, when sold in the foreign markets, replaces not only the bounty, but this capital, together with the ordinary profits of stock, the society is a loser by the difference, or the national stock is so much diminished."
"to lay out on goods for his own consumption."
"Even in the rice countries, therefore, the rent of rice lands cannot regulate the rent of the other cultivated land which can never be turned to that produce."
"Improvements of rent, by new buildings, repairs, etc."
"In the disorderly times which gave birth to those barbarous institutions, the great proprietor was sufficiently employed in defending his own territories, or in extending his jurisdiction and authority over those of his neighbours."
"Agriculture is rendered less advantageous, and trade and manufactures more advantageous, than they otherwise would be; and every man is tempted by his own interest to turn, as much as he can, both his capital and his industry from the former to the latter employments."
"and an additional capital of."
"From the loss of rent, there will be a loss of value, of estimated money value, but there will be a gain of wealth."
"Over and above the expenses which are common to every branch of trade, such as the expense of house rent, the wages of servants, clerks, accountants, etc."
"Many people would wish to see this process carried much further, but they are deterred by two considerations; partly by the fear of making skilful evasions too much worth while and also of diminishing unduly the motive towards risk taking, but mainly, I think, by the belief that the growth of capital depends upon the strength of the motive towards individual saving and that for a large proportion of this growth we are dependent on the savings of the rich out of their superfluity."
"It is, indeed, strange that Professor Pigou should have supposed that he could furnish a theory of unemployment which involves no reference at all to changes in the rate of investment (i.e. to changes in employment in the non wage goods industries) due, not to a change in the supply function of labour, but to changes in (e.g.) either the rate of interest or the state of confidence."
"But though all things would have become cheaper in reality, in appearance many things might have become dearer, than before, or have been exchanged for a greater quantity of other goods."
"That the average price of corn began to fall somewhat towards the end of the last century, and has continued to do so during the course of the sixty four first years of the present, I have already endeavoured to show."
"But the noise of fire arms, the smoke, and the invisible death to which every man feels himself every moment exposed, as soon as he comes within cannon shot, and frequently a long time before the battle can be well said to be engaged, must render it very difficult to maintain any considerable degree of this regularity, order, and prompt obedience, even in the beginning of a modern battle."
"Thus far we fully agree; but we essentially differ in our views of the subsequent operation of such a tax."
"A high price of provisions may arise from very different causes, and may accordingly produce very different effects."
"With the right of possessing forts and garrisons in distant and barbarous countries is necessarily connected the right of making peace and war in those countries."
"The South Sea company never had any forts or garrisons to maintain, and therefore were entirely exempted from one great expense, to which other joint stock companies for foreign trade are subject; but they had an immense capital divided among an immense number of proprietors."
"In ancient times, before any charities of this kind had been established for the education of indigent people to the learned professions, the rewards of eminent teachers appear to have been much more considerable."
", where is the amount of our entrepreneur's purchases from other entrepreneurs, the actual value of his capital equipment at the end of the period, and G' the value it might have had at the end of the period if he had refrained from using it and had spent the optimum sum B' on its maintenance and improvement."
"I conceive, therefore, that a somewhat comprehensive socialisation of investment will prove the only means of securing an approximation to full employment; though this need not exclude all manner of compromises and of devices by which public authority will co operate with private initiative."
"The butcher seldom carries his beef or his mutton to the baker or the brewer, in order to exchange them for bread or for beer; but he carries them to the market, where he exchanges them for money, and afterwards exchanges that money for bread and for beer."
"Now each of these commodity standards offers us the same facility as money for measuring the marginal efficiency of capital."
"So far, we have been primarily concerned with the way in which changes in the quantity of money affect prices in the short period."
"would purchase in the present times; and Asinius Celer gave for a surmullet"
"Yet Professor Pigou accepts, apparently, the possibility of increased primary employment."
"It is in consequence of these maxims, that the commerce between France and England has, in both countries, been subjected to so many discouragements and restraints."
"The produce of almost all other labour is liable to the like deduction of profit."
"This, however, has been the policy of Holland, though their company, in the course of the present century, has given up in many respects the exertion of their exclusive privilege."
"The higher the tax, the higher the penalties with which the prohibition is guarded, the more vigilant and severe"
"The further theory, that there are physical causes for a regular cycle of good and bad harvests, is, of course, a different matter with which we are not concerned here."
"The same confidence which disposes great merchants and manufacturers upon ordinary occasions, to trust their property to the protection of a particular government, disposes them, upon extraordinary occasions, to trust that government with the use of their property."
"By the capitalist who works the mine, No."
"He sometimes demands rent for what is altogether incapable of human improvements."
"Thus for each type of capital we can build up a schedule, showing by how much investment in it will have to increase within the period, in order that its marginal efficiency should fall to any given figure."
"If value be the measure of riches, the society is equally rich, because the value of all its commodities is the same as before."
"It is the interest of such a sovereign, therefore, to open the most extensive market for the produce of his country, to allow the most perfect freedom of commerce, in order to increase as much as possible the number and competition of buyers; and upon this account to abolish, not only all monopolies, but all restraints upon the transportation of the home produce from one part of the country to mother, upon its exportation to foreign countries, or upon the importation of goods of any kind for which it can be exchanged."
"For, first, I deny that less capital will necessarily be devoted to the growth of corn, to the manufacture of cloth, hats, shoes, andc."
"For one very rich man, there must be at least five hundred poor, and the affluence of the few supposes the indigence of the many."
"by the bargain, just as much as if an ounce of silver was at London exactly of the same value as at Canton."
"Originally, the courts of law gave damages only for breach of contract."
"If, since the establishment of the act of navigation, the ordinary rate of British profit has fallen considerably, as it certainly has, it must have fallen still lower, had not the monopoly established by that act contributed to keep it up."
"In the farm of tobacco was let for twenty two millions five hundred and forty one thousand two hundred and seventy"
"And, indeed, as soon as one makes the attempt, it becomes clear, as I hope to show, that one can get on much better without them."
"Only, indeed, in so far as the change in the news is differently interpreted by different individuals or affects individual lnterests differently will there be room for any increased activity of dealing in the bond market."
"In countries ill cultivated, and therefore but thinly inhabited, the price of the wool and the hide bears always a much greater proportion to that of the whole beast, than in countries where, improvement and population being further advanced, there is more demand for butcher's meat."
"The merchant who imported wine after profits had been raised from percent."
"It sometimes happens, indeed, that a single independent workman has stock sufficient both to purchase the materials of his work, and to maintain himself till it be completed."
"Since incomes will decrease by a greater absolute amount than investment, it is, indeed, true that, when the rate of interest rises, the rate of consumption will decrease."
"With the progress of society, the natural price of labour has always a tendency to rise, because one of the principal commodities by which its natural price is regulated, has a tendency to become dearer, from the greater difficulty of producing it."
"for the quarter of wheat, and for that of other grain in proportion."
"Whatever reduces the real price of the latter, raises that of the former."
"per yard, and give the usual profits of stock, it may rise to or."
"by bills upon Holland, the ordinary state of debt and credit between England and Holland will not be regulated entirely by the ordinary course of the dealings of those two countries with one another, but will be influenced by that of the dealings in England with those other places."
"Where there is an exclusive corporation, it may, perhaps, be proper to regulate the price of the first necessary of life; but, where there is none, the competition will regulate it much better than any assize."
"The ideas of economists and political philosophers, both when they are right and when they are wrong, are more powerful than is commonly understood."
"It is not more than fifty years ago, that some of the counties in the neighbourhood of London petitioned the parliament against the extension of the turnpike roads into the remoter counties."
"and private people of good credit at three."
"The postscript is, therefore, to be found in few copies; it corrects several errors in the book."
"The example of the manufacturer of salt, who can only make the consumers pay a portion of the tax, and that of the landlord who cannot reimburse himself in the smallest degree, prove the error of those who maintain, in opposition to the economists, that all taxes fall ultimately on the consumer."
"As it is this disposition which forms that difference of talents, so remarkable among men of different professions, so it is this same disposition which renders that difference useful."
"This view is, however, incorrect and is based on a confusion of the effect on capital formation of (i) higher or lower prices of consumers' goods, and a change in the rate of interest."
"But intellectually their realism is much preferable to the confused thinking of contemporary advocates of an international fixed gold standard and laissezfaire in international lending, who believe that it is precisely these policies which will best promote peace."
", but the exchange will be at par."
"It is now more than two hundred years since the beginning of the reign of Elizabeth, a period as long as the course of human prosperity usually endures."
"That a joint stock company should be able to carry on successfully any branch of foreign trade, when private adventurers can come into any sort of open and fair competition with them, seems contrary to all experience."
"Thirdly, and lastly, In some places, as at Amsterdam, Hamburg, Venice, etc."
"It is upon this account, that joint stock companies for foreign trade have seldom been able to maintain the competition against private adventurers."
"But by taking off all the different duties upon beer and ale, and by trebling the malt tax, or by raising it from six to eighteen shillings upon the quarter of malt, a greater revenue, it is said, might be raised by this single tax, than what is at present drawn from all those heavier taxes."
"A creditor of the public has, no doubt, a general interest in the prosperity of the agriculture, manufactures, and commerce of the country; and consequently in the good condition of its land, and in the good management of its capital stock."
"For this reason the facts of the existing situation enter, in a sense disproportionately, into the formation of our long term expectations; our usual practice being to take the existing situation and to project it into the future, modified only to the extent that we have more or less definite reasons for expecting a change."
"per annum towards the interest of the debt, is really worth only."
"The criterion must obviously correspond to where we draw the line between the consumer and the entrepreneur."
"When wages rise, it is generally because the increase of wealth and capital have occasioned a new demand for labour, which will infallibly be attended with an increased production of commodities."
"England, perhaps the second richest country of Europe, is likewise supposed to have a considerable share in it; though what commonly passes for the carrying trade of England will frequently, perhaps, be found to be no more than a round about foreign trade of consumption."
"When the licence was once purchased, whether the purchaser drunk much or drunk little, his tax would be the same."
"I am, however, disposed to believe, that the quantity of the annual produce cannot have been much, though it may, perhaps, have been a little affected by these regulations."
"When such demands actually come upon him, he can answer them sufficiently from his cash account."
"These qualities of utility, beauty, and scarcity, are the original foundation of the high price of those metals, or of the great quantity of other goods for which they can everywhere be exchanged."
"At Hamburg, Memoires concernant les Droits, tom.,."
"For it involves a severe decline in the market value of stock exchange equities."
"As a merchant, who has worth of wine in his cellar, is a richer man than he who has only worth of tobacco in his warehouse, so is he likewise a richer man than he who has only worth of gold in his coffers."
"Deposits of bullion are most commonly made when the price is somewhat lower than ordinary, and they are taken out again when it happens to rise."
"By the second of the rules, annexed to the act of parliament, which imposed what is now called the old subsidy, every merchant, whether English or alien."
"For the relationship between Yw and may depend (though probably in a very minor degree) on the precise nature of the employment."
"They are concerned, not with what an investment is really worth to a man who buys it 'for keeps', but with what the market will value it at, under the influence of mass psychology, three months or a year hence."
"All the inland parts of Africa, and all that part of Asia which lies any considerable way north of the Euxine and Caspian seas, the ancient Scythia, the modern Tartary and Siberia, seem, in all ages of the world, to have been in the same barbarous and uncivilized state in which we find them at present."
"It seems, at the same time, however, to indicate another opinion, that this superior profit can last no longer than the laws which at present restrain the free cultivation of the vine."
"Notwithstanding then, that the advantages of fertile over inferior lands are in no case lost, but only transferred from the cultivator, or consumer, to the landlord, yet since more labour is required on the inferior lands, and since it is from such land only that we are enabled to furnish ourselves with the additional supply of raw produce, the comparative value of that produce will continue permanently above its former level, and make it exchange for more hats, cloth, shoes, andc."
"The Roman colonies furnished occasionally both the one and the other."
"It was thus, as we are told by Machiavel, that the agents of Lorenzo of Medicis, not a prince of mean abilities, carried on his trade."
"The capital employed in this manner yields no revenue or profit to its employer, while it either remains in his possession, or continues in the same shape."
"Whether the one or the other of those two events may happen to take place, is of very little importance to the real wealth and prosperity of the world, to the real value of the annual produce of the land and labour of mankind."
"It all depends on how far the rate of interest is favourable to investment, after taking account of the marginal efficiency of capital."
"In the one case it is a fixed, in the other it is a circulating capital."
", that of British weighs lbs."
"In the progress of the Roman greatness, the consul was too much occupied with the political affairs of the state, to attend to the administration of justice."
"But controversy ceased; the other point of view completely disappeared; it ceased to be discussed."
"Thus we are so sensible, have schooled ourselves to so close a semblance of prudent financiers, taking careful thought before we add to the 'financial' burdens of posterity by building them houses to live in, that we have no such easy escape from the sufferings of unemployment."
"In Marshall's Principles of Economics th ed."
"Gold and silver, like all other commodities, says Adam Smith, naturally seek the market where the best price is given for them; and the best price is commonly given for every thing in the country which can best afford it."
"From what I have said, it must not be inferred that I consider the system of borrowing as the best calculated to defray the extraordinary expenses of the state."
"You really encourage those manufactures, and direct towards them a greater quantity of the industry of the country than what would properly go to them of its own accord."
"Unless the world in general, therefore, be advancing in improvement and population, the demand for silver might not be at all increased by the improvement even of a large country in the neighbourhood of the mine."
"In some countries, the lands of the church are exempted from all taxes."
"If No. were taken into cultivation, and yielded quarters, no tax would be paid for such land; but it would create a rent of ten quarters on No. which would then commence paying the tax."
"It has long been recognised, however, that the total effect of changes in the rate ofinterest on the readiness to spend on present consumption is complex and uncertain, being dependent on conflicting tendencies, since some of the subjective motives towards saving will be more easily satisfied if the rate of interest rises, whilst others will be weakened."
"Their real price, the quantity of labour which they can purchase or command, rises in times of poverty and distress, and sinks in times of opulence and prosperity, which are always times of great abundance; for they could not otherwise be times of opulence and prosperity."
"The javelins and arrows which were thrown or shot in an ancient one, could easily be picked up again, and were, besides, of very little value."
"Spain and Portugal, indeed, are supposed to have gone backwards."
"That jesuit had travelled over the whole country, and had no inclination to represent it as less inconsiderable than it really was."
"It is, perhaps, the most disadvantageous lottery in the world, or the one in which the gain of those who draw the prizes bears the least proportion to the loss of those who draw the blanks; for though the prizes are few, and the blanks many, the common price of a ticket is the whole fortune of a very rich man."
"When, on the other hand, they import less than is wanted, they get something more than this price."
"The whole of what is annually either collected or produced by the labour of every society, or, what comes to the same thing, the whole price of it, is in this manner originally distributed among some of its different members."
"The expense of the civil and military establishment of Ireland, together with the interest of the public debt, amounts, at a medium of the two years which ended March to something less than seven hundred and fifty thousand pounds a year."
"We can, therefore, theoretically at least, produce precisely the same effects on the rate of interest by reducing wages, whilst leaving the quantity of money unchanged, that we can produce by increasing the quantity of money whilst leaving the level of wages unchanged."
"It is characteristic of instrumental capital (e.g. a machine) or of consumption capital (e.g. a house) which is in use, that its yield should normally exceed its carrying cost, whilst its liquidity premium is probably negligible; of a stock of liquid goods or of surplus laid up instrumental or consumption capital that it should incur a carrying cost in terms of itself without any yield to set off against it, the liquiditypremium in this case also being usually negligible as soon as stocks exceed a moderate level, though capable of being sigmficant in special circumstances; and of money that its yield is nil and its carrying cost negligible, but its liquidity premium substantial."
"The increase and riches of commercial and manufacturing towns contributed to the improvement and cultivation of the countries to which they belonged, in three different ways."
"Soon after the greater part of the temporary taxes of Great Britain had been rendered perpetual, and distributed into the aggregate, South sea, and general funds, the creditors of the public, like those of private persons, were induced to accept of five percent."
"A country which has accumulated a large debt is placed in a most artificial situation; and although the amount of taxes, and the increased price of labour, may not, and I believe does not, place it under any other disadvantage with respect to foreign countries, except the unavoidable one of paying those taxes, yet it becomes the interest of every contributor to withdraw his shoulder from the burthen, and to shift this payment from himself to another; and the temptation to remove himself and his capital to another country, where he will be exempted from such burthens, becomes at last irresistible, and overcomes the natural reluctance which every man feels to quit the place of his birth, and the scene of his early associations."
"Those taxes however are easily collected; and this by many may be thought to afford some compensation for their injurious effects."
"The ancient policy of Europe endeavoured, in this manner, to regulate agriculture, the great trade of the country, by maxims quite different from those which it established with regard to manufactures, the great trade of the towns."
"We imported about ninety six thousand hogsheads, and the home consumption was not supposed to exceed fourteen thousand."
"When this resource is exhausted, and it becomes necessary, in order to raise money, to assign or mortgage some particular branch of the public revenue for the payment of the debt, government has, upon different occasions, done this in two different ways."
"It does not matter for our present purpose exactly where we draw the line between the costs which we deduct before calculating and those which we include in, since in what follows we shall be exclusively concerned with."
"But it will often be safe to omit express reference to short term expectation, in view of the fact that in practice the process of revision of short term expectation is a gradual and continuous one, carried on largely in the light of realised results; so that expected and realised results run into and overlap one another in their influence."
"Under such a government, the clergy naturally endeavour to recommend themselves to the sovereign, to the court, and to the nobility and gentry of the country, by whose influence they chiefly expect to obtain preferment."
"But with the same capital on land of a better quality, quarters may be produced, which at."
"The discovery of America, however, certainly made a most essential one."
"In its natural and free state, the colony trade, without drawing from those markets any part of the produce which had ever been sent to them, encourages Great Britain to increase the surplus continually, by continually presenting new equivalents to be exchanged for it."
"As it is ridiculous not to dress, so is it, in some measure, not to be employed like other people."
"The psychology of the community is such that when aggregate real income is increased aggregate consumption is increased, but not by so much as income."
"It is otherwise in estates above ground."
"If the bank which issued this paper was careful to keep the quantity of it always somewhat below what could easily be employed in this manner, the demand for it might be such as to make it even bear a premium, or sell for somewhat more in the market than the quantity of gold or silver currency for which it was issued."
"If, however, one of the alternative standards is expected to change in value in terms of the other, the marginal efficiencies of capital assets will be changed by the same percentage, according to which standard they are measured in."
"When his goods are upon hand, too, he is more liable to such demands for money as he may not be able to answer, than when he has got their price in his coffers."
"They are certainly, however, dearer in England than in France, as England receives considerable supplies from France."
"National animosity, at that particular time, aimed at the very same object which the most deliberate wisdom would have recommended, the diminution of the naval power of Holland, the only naval power which could endanger the security of England."
"It is the more necessary, to make this remark, as in the present day the authority of Adam Smith is quoted by country gentlemen for imposing similar high duties on the importation of foreign corn."
"It is otherwise with the common people."
"Thus if currency notes were to be deprived of their liquidity premium by the stamping system, a long series of substitutes would step into their shoes<U+F8E7>bank money, debts at call, foreign money, jewellery and the precious metals generally, and so forth."
"It would be absolutely impossible to distribute among all the leading members of all the colony assemblies such a share, either of the offices, or of the disposal of the offices, arising from the general government of the British empire, as to dispose them to give up their popularity at home, and to tax their constituents for the support of that general government, of which almost the whole emoluments were to be divided among people who were strangers to them."
"With regard to the supposed scarcity of corn occasioned by the multiplication of vineyards, corn is nowhere in France more carefully cultivated than in the wine provinces, where the land is fit for producing it: as in Burgundy, Guienne, and the Upper Languedoc."
"A service of plate, and the other frivolous ornaments of dress and furniture, could be purchased for a smaller quantity of commodities; and in this would consist the sole advantage which the world could derive from that abundance."
"When a tax is imposed upon the profits of stock in a particular branch of trade, the traders are all careful to bring no more goods to market than what they can sell at a price sufficient to reimburse them from advancing the tax."
"The retainers of some particular prelates were often as numerous as those of the greatest lay lords; and the retainers of all the clergy taken together were, perhaps, more numerous than those of all the lay lords."
"The one, in his separate independent state, is less liable to the temptations of bad company, which, in large manufactories, so frequently ruin the morals of the other."
"Qute legitimately we regard an individual's income as independent of what he himself consumes and invests."
"In the first passage we are told, that if every thing fell to half its value, from abundance, the society would be equally rich, because there would be double the quantity of commodities at half their former value, or in other words, there would be the same value."
"It is, perhaps, worth while to remark, that"
"The necessity which the labourer would be under of paying an increased price for such necessaries, would oblige him to demand more wages; and whatever increases wages, necessarily reduces profits."
"In Silesia, lands held by a noble tenure are taxed three percent."
"In as far as the tax might affect consumers, it would be an equal tax, but in as far as it would affect profits, it would be a partial tax; for it would neither operate on the landlord nor on the stockholder, since they would continue to receive, the one the same money rent, the other the same money dividends as before."
"The smaller the quantity of manufactured produce, which any given quantity of rude produce, or, what comes to the same thing, which the price of any given quantity of rude produce, is capable of purchasing, the smaller the exchangeable value of that given quantity of rude produce; the smaller the encouragement which either the landlord has to increase its quantity by improving, or the farmer by cultivating the land."
"With every fluctuation in the quantity and value of money, the prices of commodities naturally vary."
"But if it be true that an attempt to accumulate very rapidly will occasion such a division between labour and profits as almost to destroy both the motive and the power of future accumulation and consequently the power of maintaining and employing an increasing population, must it not be acknowledged that such an attempt to accumulate, or that saving too much, may be really prejudicial to a country?"
"When it is applied to the sole purpose above mentioned, each carriage is supposed to pay exactly for the wear and tear which that carriage occasions of the roads."
"The interest and opposition of such favoured subjects, are the obstacles most likely to prevent this, or any other reformation of the same kind."
"This book, on the other hand, has evolved into what is primarily a study of the forces which determine changes in the scale of output and employment as a whole; and, whilst it is found that money enters into the economic scheme in an essential and peculiar manner, technical monetary detail falls into the background."
"Thus far at least seems certain, that, in order to bring up a family, the labour of the husband and wife together must, even in the lowest species of common labour, be able to earn something more than what is precisely necessary for their own maintenance; but in what proportion, whether in that above mentioned, or many other, I shall not take upon me to determine."
"The third and last duty of the sovereign or commonwealth, is that of erecting and maintaining those public institutions and those public works, which though they may be in the highest degree advantageous to a great society, are, however, of such a nature, that the profit could never repay the expense to any individual, or small number of individuals; and which it, therefore, cannot be expected that any individual, or small number of individuals, should erect or maintain."
"The Highland militia, when it served under its own chieftains, had some advantage of the same kind."
"They would in fact be indirectly taxed, and their value would rise in proportion to the tax."
"These twenty years preceding may very well be set in opposition to the twenty preceding."
"Land, in its original rude state, can afford the materials of clothing and lodging to a much greater number of people than it can feed."
"It is, however, a project altogether unfit for a nation of shopkeepers, but extremely fit for a nation whose government is influenced by shopkeepers."
"That is to say, the sum of the elasticities of price and of output in response to changes in effective demand (measured in terms of wage units) is equal to unity."
"But the people who were accustomed to make oath only before some diligent and well informed court of justice, would naturally be much more attentive to what they swore, than they who were accustomed to do the same thing before mobbish and disorderly assemblies."
"Their monopoly secures them against all competitors in the home market, and they have the same chance for foreign markets with the traders of other nations."
"The only difference between a tax on necessaries, and a tax on wages is, that the former will necessarily be accompanied by a rise in the price of necessaries, but the latter will not; towards a tax on wages, consequently, neither the stockholder, the landlord, nor any other class"
"These are very different from mere dwelling houses."
"The condition ew means that the wage unit in terms of money rises in the same proportion as the effective demand, since ew (DdW) (WdD) and"
"To promote the little interest of one little order of men in one country, it hurts the interest of all other orders of men in that country, and of all the men in all other countries."
"The poor slave, instead of reward would probably meet with much abuse, perhaps with some punishment."
"He generally looks at these, but never thinks it worth while to enquire whether the workman had served a seven years apprenticeship."
"In examining those arguments, they were necessarily led to consider the difference between a probable and a demonstrative argument, between a fallacious and a conclusive one; and logic, or the science of the general principles of good and bad reasoning, necessarily arose out of the observations which a scrutiny of this kind gave occasion to; though, in its origin, posterior both to physics and to ethics, it was commonly taught, not indeed in all, but in the greater part of the ancient schools of philosophy, previously to either of those sciences."
"de Vectigalibus Pop."
"But it does not become bound to admit them upon any better terms than those of any other nation, of France or Holland, for example."
"Such trades were, at Athens and Rome, all occupied by the slaves of the rich, who exercised them for the benefit of their masters, whose wealth, power, and protection, made it almost impossible for a poor freeman to find a market for his work, when it came into competition with that of the slaves of the rich."
"Those agents were not always able to replenish the coffers of their employers so fast as they were emptied."
"Gain is the end of all improvement; and nothing could deserve that name, of which loss was to be the necessary consequence."
"Taxes upon Consumable Commodities."
"per annum in his own possession."
"Lands, mines, and fisheries, require all both a fixed and circulating capital to cultivate them; and their produce replaces, with a profit not only those capitals, but all the others in the society."
"Even the violent and arbitrary government of Spain has, upon many occasions, been obliged to recall or soften the orders which had been given for the government of her colonies, for fear of a general insurrection."
"For the latter have inferred that there must be two sources of supply to meet the investment demand schedule; namely, savings proper, which are the savings dealt with by the classical school, plus the sum made available by any increase in the quantity of money (this being balanced by some species of levy on the public, called 'forced saving' or the like)."
"In consequence of this mistake of Columbus, the name of the Indies has stuck to those unfortunate countries ever since; and when it was at last clearly discovered that the new were altogether different from the old Indies, the former were called the West, in contradistinction to the latter, which were called the East Indies."
"But the cruellest of our revenue laws, I will venture to affirm, are mild and gentle, in comparison to some of those which the clamour of our merchants and manufacturers has extorted from the legislature, for the support of their own absurd and oppressive monopolies."
"But the writers who have collected the prices of corn in ancient times seem frequently to have mistaken what is called in Scotland the conversion price for the actual market price."
"If, during the sixty four first years of the present century, therefore, the average money price of corn has fallen somewhat below what it had been during the greater part of the last century, we should, in the same manner, impute this change, not to any fall in the real value of corn, but to some rise in the real value of silver in the European market."
"The brief answer which Ricardo gave to the contentions of Malthus and Chalmers seems to have been accepted as sufficient by most later economists. '"
"Their absurd presumption in their own good fortune has been less taken notice of."
"In the observation or neglect of this maxim, consists what is called the equality or inequality of taxation."
"Under such different management, the same purpose must require very different degrees of expense to execute it."
"The legal rate of interest in France has not during the course of the present century, been always regulated by the market rate"
"That is to say, G' B' is the maximum net value which might have been conserved from the previous period, if it had not been used to produce."
"It might be more agreeable to the company, that their own servants and dependants should have either the pleasure of wasting, or the profit of embezzling, whatever surplus might remain, after paying the proposed dividend of eight percent."
"Say appears to me to have mistaken the nature and effects of the English land tax, when he says, Many persons attribute to this fixed valuation, the great prosperity of English agriculture."
"the other would also be obliged to raise the price of his goods from."
"Many of them have been written by very candid and very intelligent people, who wrote nothing but what they believed, and for no other reason but because they believed it."
"That is to say, two different distributions of a given aggregate employment between different employments might (owing to the different shapes of the individual employment functions<U+F8E7>a matter to be discussed in below) lead to different values of Yw."
"The final payment would, in different cases, fall upon different persons."
"There are two possible principles for calculating it, each of which has a certain significance;<U+F8E7>one of them in connection with production, and the other in connection with consumption."
"In accordingly, the further exportation of corn was prohibited for nine months."
"The joint stock companies, which are established for the public spirited purpose of promoting some particular manufacture, over and above managing their own affairs ill, to the diminution of the general stock of the society, can, in other respects, scarce ever fail to do more harm than good."
"Land and capital stock are the two original sources of all revenue, both private and public."
"Their industry and vigilance will, no doubt, be whetted by such an additional motive; and their skill in the profession, as well as their address in governing the minds of the people, must receive daily increase, from their increasing practice, study, and attention. '"
"The channel of circulation, if I may be allowed such an expression, will remain precisely the same as before."
"If, for instance, wages were regulated by a yearly increase of capital, at the rate of percent."
"The time spent in two different sorts of work will not always alone determine this proportion."
"Any rise in the money price of goods which proceeded altogether from the degradation of the value of silver, would affect all sorts of goods equally, and raise their price universally, a third, or a fourth, or a fifth part higher, according as silver happened to lose a third, or a fourth, or a fifth part of its former value."
"It seems not unreasonable, that the extraordinary expense which the protection of any particular branch of commerce may occasion, should be defrayed by a moderate tax upon that particular branch; by a moderate fine, for example, to be paid by the traders when they first enter into it; or, what is more equal, by a particular duty of so much percent."
"The bankers only would suffer by this regulation."
"The rent of a house, says Adam Smith, may be distinguished into two parts, of which the one may very properly be called the building rent, the other is commonly called the ground rent."
"From the th of Edward to the beginning of the reign of Elizabeth, during the space of more than two hundred years, six shillings and eightpence, it appears from several different statutes, had continued to be considered as what is called the moderate and reasonable, that is, the ordinary or average price of wheat."
"The Hudson's Bay company are, as to their legal rights, in the same situation as the Royal African company."
"A sixth part of the gross produce may be reckoned the average rent of the tin mines of Cornwall, the most fertile that are known in the world, as we are told by the Rev. Mr. Borlace, vice warden of the stannaries."
"While teaching at a school in Exeter"
"The stock of both may improve; but that of the one, with only equal good conduct, must always improve more slowly than that of the other, on account of the large share of the profits which is consumed by the interest of the loan."
"The produce of industry is what it adds to the subject or materials upon which it is employed."
"High taxes, sometimes by diminishing the consumption of the taxed commodities, and sometimes by encouraging smuggling frequently afford a smaller revenue to government than what might be drawn from more moderate taxes."
"The civil magistrate, who could comply with their demand only by giving them something which he would have chosen much rather to take, or to keep to himself, was seldom very forward to grant it."
"There were a good many people, too, upon this occasion, who, from a diffidence of repayment, did not bring their silver into the Bank of Scotland; and there was, besides, some English coin, which was not called in."
"said to have been possessed by the greater part of the Hanse Towns, except in the obscure histories of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries."
"For all measures helpful to a state of chronic or intermittent underemployment were ruled out, except measures to improve the balance of trade on income account."
"In proportion as that share of the annual produce which, as soon as it comes either from the ground, or from the hands of the productive labourers, is destined for replacing a capital, increases in any country, what is called the monied interest naturally increases with it."
"Money, therefore, necessarily runs after goods, but goods do not always or necessarily run after money."
"It is undoubtedly true, that a taxed commodity will not rise in proportion to the tax, if the demand for it will diminish, and if the quantity cannot be reduced."
"The government advances the expense of establishing the different offices, and of buying or hiring the necessary horses or carriages, and is repaid, with a large profit, by the duties upon what is carried."
"This is made easy by reference to Professor Heckscher's great work on Mercantilism, in which the essential characteristics of economic thought over a period of two centuries are made available for the first time to the general economic reader."
"The country, too, is not only much poorer, but the steps by which it advances to a better condition, for it is evidently advancing, seem to be much slower and more tardy."
"Upon such occasions, each political party has either found it, or imagined it, for his interest, to league itself with some one or other of the contending religious sects."
"It was probably in imitation of them, and to put themselves upon a level with those who, they found, were disposed to oppress them, that the country gentlemen and farmers of Great Britain so far forgot the generosity which is natural to their station, as to demand the exclusive privilege of supplying their countrymen with corn and butcher's meat."
"though here again I have not found actual words to quote."
"The banks of Venice, Genoa, Amsterdam, Hamburg, and Nuremberg, seem to have been all originally established with this view, though some of them may have afterwards been made subservient to other purposes."
"But nothing seems more likely to establish this equality of force, than that mutual communication of knowledge, and of all sorts of improvements, which an extensive commerce from all countries to all countries naturally, or rather necessarily, carries along with it."
"It has partly been driven from them, by the advantage which the high rate of profit established in Great Britain gives to other countries, in all the different branches of trade of which Great Britain has not the monopoly."
"Nor have these publications been all party pamphlets, the wretched offspring of falsehood and venality."
"Its superiority, perhaps, would scarce appear greater in the present times, at least if the Dutch navy were to bear the same proportion to the Dutch commerce now which it did then."
"He will find there, too, the particular account of the preceding ten years, of which the average is likewise below, though not so much below, the general average of the sixty four first years of the century."
"Rent, considered as the price paid for the use of land, is naturally the highest which the tenant can afford to pay in the actual circumstances of the land."
"Every owner of wool within ten miles of the sea coast must give an account in writing, three days after shearing, to the next officer of the customs, of the number of his fleeces, and of the places where they are lodged."
"This doctrine, like most other doctrines which are confidently asserted by any considerable number of people, was, and still continues to be, most implicitly believed by a much greater number: by almost all those who are either unacquainted with the woollen trade, or who have not made particular inquiries."
"That bounties upon exportation have been abused, to many fraudulent purposes, is very well known."
"But it is not so easily understood that the same difficulty applies to private investment and to industrial expansion; particularly to the latter, since it is much easier to see an early satiation of the demand for new factories and plant which absorb individually but little money, than of the demand for dwelling houses."
"A young widow with four or five young children, who, among the middling or inferior ranks of people in Europe, would have so little chance for a second husband, is there frequently courted as a sort of fortune."
"The duties of customs are much more ancient than those of excise."
"The amount that the community spends on consumption obviously depends (i) partly on the amount of its income, (ii) partly on the other objective attendant circumstances, and (iii)"
"But though the bill which was then brought into Parliament, comprehended those two commodities only, it was generally supposed to be meant as an introduction to a more extensive scheme of the same kind."
"Even they, however, would, in point of happiness and tranquillity, gain considerably by a union with Great Britain."
"First, If the tolls which are levied at the turnpikes should ever be considered as one of the resources for supplying the exigencies of the state, they would certainly be augmented as those exigencies were supposed to require."
"On the one hand the country was rid of an unwelcome surplus of goods, which was believed to result in unemployment, while on the other the total stock of money in the country was increased', with the resulting advantages of a fall in the rate of interest."
"Nor, on the other hand, are the original expectations relevant, which led the firm to acquire the capital equipment and the stock of intermediate products and half finished materials with which it finds itself at the time when it has to decide the next day's output."
"When the price of any commodity is neither more nor less than what is sufficient to pay the rent of the land, the wages of the labour, and the profits of the stock employed in raising, preparing, and bringing it to market, according to their natural rates, the commodity is then sold for what may be called its natural price."
"but what were perfectly agreeable."
"The fair of Troyes in Champaign was at that time frequented by all the nations of Europe, and the weights and measures of so famous a market were generally known and esteemed."
"The Greeks and Romans lived, I suppose, very comfortably, though they had no linen."
"They tend directly, it may be supposed, to render the goods cheaper in the home market than they otherwise would be."
"The necessary instability of such a fund seems, however, to render it an improper one for the maintenance of an institution which ought to last for ever."
"The market for wool and raw hides, on the contrary, is, in the rude beginnings of improvement, very seldom confined to the country which produces them."
"In a year of great scarcity, both manufactures, indeed, appear to have declined very considerably."
"By issuing too great a quantity of paper, says Dr. Smith, of which the excess was continually returning, in order to be exchanged for gold and silver, the Bank of England was, for many years together, obliged to coin gold to the extent of between eight hundred thousand pounds and a million a year, or at an average, about eight hundred and fifty thousand pounds."
"Instead of making profit upon such occasions, therefore, he is often in danger of being utterly ruined, and of having his magazines plundered and destroyed by their violence."
"It is on the side of demand that we have to introduce quite new ideas when we are dealing with demand as a whole and no longer with the demand for a single product taken in isolation, with demand as a whole assumed to be unchanged."
"There are, however, two different circumstances, which render the interest of money a much less proper subject of direct taxation than the rent of land."
"Nothing can raise rent, but a demand for new land of an inferior quality, or some cause which shall occasion an alteration in the relative fertility of the land already under cultivation."
"That part of the capital of any country which is employed in the carrying trade, is altogether withdrawn from supporting the productive labour of that particular country, to support that of some foreign countries."
"Sometimes, indeed, the liberality, more frequently the ignorance, of the landlord, makes him accept of somewhat less than this portion; and sometimes, too, though more rarely, the ignorance of the tenant makes him undertake to pay somewhat more, or to content himself with somewhat less, than the ordinary profits of farming stock in the neighbourhood."
"If there were any other commodity which was invariable in its value, requiring at all times, and under all circumstances, precisely the same quantity of labour to obtain it, we should be able to ascertain, by comparing the value of fish and game with this commodity, how much of the variation was to be attributed to a cause which affected the value of fish, and how much to a cause which affected the value of game."
"Something like a bounty upon production, however, has been granted upon some particular occasions."
"and will be equal to the difference between the produce of these two, or ten quarters; and at the same time the rent of the first."
"All taxes having been usually paid in paper money, the prince would not have wherewithal either to pay his troops, or to furnish his magazines; and the state of the country would be much more irretrievable than if the greater part of its circulation had consisted in gold and silver."
"In fact, those who seriously attempt to make any such estimate are often so much in the minority that their behaviour does not govern the market."
"Before the tax, the goods sold by one of these manufacturers were times more valuable than the goods of the other; after the tax they will be times more valuable: the one kind will have risen percent."
"for years, at percent."
"The government of Spain contributed scarce any thing to any of them."
"The revenue which pays for the produce of the land, exists already in the hands of those who purchase that produce; and, if the price of subsistence were lower, it would still remain in their hands, where it would be just as available for taxation as when, by a higher price, it is transferred to the landed proprietor."
"Though their beneficial effects, however, have been in this respect accidental, they have not upon that account been less real."
"Since the invention of fire arms, strength and agility of body, or even extraordinary dexterity and skill in the use of arms, though they are far from being of no consequence, are, however, of less consequence."
"In other words, the struggle about money wages primarily affects the distribution of the aggregate real wage between different labour groups, and not its average amount per unit of employment, which depends, as we shall see, on a different set of forces."
"but while money is the general medium of exchange, the demand for it is never a matter of choice, but always of necessity; you must take it in exchange for your goods, and therefore there are no limits to the quantity which may be forced on you by foreign trade, if it fall in value; and no reduction to which you must not submit, if it rise."
"Now if the price of corn were."
"These are in some countries called transit duties."
"And then shall we be still losers, and they at the winning hand with us, while they sell dear and yet buy ours good cheap, and consequently enrich themselves and impoverish us."
"All other things I call luxuries, without meaning, by this appellation, to throw the smallest degree of reproach upon the temperate use of them."
"It is upon this account, they say, the bank money sells for a premium, or bears an agio of four or five percent."
"The judicious operations of banking, by substituting paper in the room of a great part of this gold and silver, enable the country to convert a great part of this dead stock into active and productive stock; into stock which produces something to the country."
"the exportation of frames or engines for knitting gloves or stockings, is prohibited, under the penalty, not only of the forfeiture of such frames or engines, so exported, or attempted to be exported, but of forty pounds, one half to the king, the other to the person who shall inform or sue for the same."
"But if the profits of those who deal in such goods are above their proper level, those goods will be sold dearer than they ought to be, or somewhat above their natural price, and all those engaged in the nearer employments will be more or less oppressed by this high price."
"It is the 'price' which equilibrates the desire to hold wealth in the form of cash with the available quantity of cash;<U+F8E7>which implies that if the rate of interest were lower, ie if the reward for parting with cash were diminished, the aggregate amount of cash which the public would wish to hold would exceed the available supply, and that if the rate of interest were raised, there would be a surplus of cash which no one would be willing to hold."
"The quantity of gold, and therefore the quantity of money would be slowly reduced; it would be a little diminished in one year, a little more in another, and finally its value would be raised in proportion to the tax; but in the interval, the proprietors or holders, as they would pay the tax, would be the sufferers, and not those who used money."
"Not only no great convulsion, but no sensible disorder, arose from so great a change in the situation of more than men, all accustomed to the use of arms, and many of them to rapine and plunder."
"But if our central controls succeed in establishing an aggregate volume of output corresponding to full employment as nearly as is practicable, the classical theory comes into its own again from this point onwards."
"In the course of ninety years, or before these mines, the most fertile in all America, had time sufficient to produce their full effect, or to reduce the value of silver in the European market as low as it could well fall, while it continued to pay this tax to the king of Spain."
"The most abundant mines, either of the precious metals, or of the precious stones, could add little to the wealth of the world."
"which the sale of the machine would produce over and above the wages advanced to the men, constituted the profits of the engineer's stock."
"It is meant only to be a tax upon the interest of money, proportioned to that upon the rent of land; so that when the latter is at four shillings in the pound, the former may be at four shillings in the pound too."
"By commanding, too, the united force of a greater number of people than any of them, he is best able to compel any one of them, who may have injured another, to compensate the wrong."
"Taxes on raw produce as well as tithes are free from this objection: they raise the price of raw produce, but they take from each quality of land a contribution in proportion to its actual produce, and not in proportion to the produce of that which is the least productive."
"When the English got possession of this country, they found in it near double the number of inhabitants which father Charlevoix had assigned to it between twenty and thirty years before."
"This however is but a temporary effect."
"It is the highest impertinence and presumption, therefore, in kings and ministers to pretend to watch over the economy of private people, and to restrain their expense, either by sumptuary laws, or by prohibiting the importation of foreign luxuries."
"This, accordingly, has been the case with most of these things upon most occasions, and would have been the case with all of them upon all occasions,"
"Their method was to dismiss the problem from the corpus of economics not by solving it but by not mentioning it."
"Neither the house, nor the ground which it stands upon, produce anything."
"By means of it, the narrowness of the home market does not hinder the division of labour in any particular branch of art or manufacture from being carried to the highest perfection."
"It seems, however, to have been long stationary."
"The land tax or land rent which used to be paid to the Mahometan government of Bengal, before that country fell into the hands of the English East India company, is said to have amounted to about a fifth part of the produce."
"All the other ninety nine parts are frequently no more than enough to provide them with food."
"But, if it was thought reasonable to lay a general tax upon trade, in order to defray the expense of protecting trade in general, it should seem equally reasonable to lay a particular tax upon a particular branch of trade, in order to defray the extraordinary expense of protecting that branch."
"According to that valuation, the lay proprietors pay from twenty to twenty five percent."
"The monopoly raises the rate of profit, but it hinders the sum of profit from rising so high as it otherwise would do."
"In those countries where there is abundance of fertile land, but where, from the ignorance, indolence, and barbarism of the inhabitants, they are exposed to all the evils of want and famine, and where it has been said that population presses against the means of subsistence, a very different remedy should be applied from that which is necessary in long settled countries, where, from the diminishing rate of the supply of raw produce, all the evils of a crowded population are experienced."
"For it has no method of analysis wherewith to tackle the problem."
"The sinking fund has, no doubt, been considerably augmented since the peace, by the debt which had been paid off, by the reduction of the redeemable four per cents to three per cents, and by the annuities for lives which have fallen in; and, if peace were to continue, a million, perhaps, might now be annually spared out of it towards the discharge of the debt."
"The judges, indeed, might in this case, be under the temptation of multiplying unnecessarily the proceedings upon every cause, in order to increase, as much as possible, the produce of such a stamp duty."
"there are two different manufactures, in each of which twenty workmen are employed, at the rate of fifteen pounds a year each, or at the expense of three hundred a year in each manufactory."
"If no more labour be required to bring cloth and gold to market, they will not vary in relative value, but if more labour be required to bring corn and shoes to market, will not corn and shoes rise in value relatively to cloth, and money made of gold?"
"three quarters, which he and his family consumed, would cost him other things not altered in price When at."
"This land tax, as it is called however, is supposed to be one fifth, not only of the rent of all the land, but of that of all the houses, and of the interest of all the capital stock of Great Britain, that part of it only excepted which is either lent to the public, or employed as farming stock in the cultivation of land."
"The law of primogeniture hindered them from being divided by succession; the introduction of entails prevented their being broke into small parcels by alienation."
"The parliament of Great Britain insists upon taxing the colonies; and they refuse to be taxed by a parliament in which they are not represented."
"He shows how it is only the existence of a rate of money interest which allows a yield to be obtained from lending out stocks of commodities."
"This, however, is only a seeming advantage to Portugal, for the quantity of cloth and wine together produced in that country would be diminished, while the quantity produced in England would be increased."
"capital be made to the million, and profits should fall to percent."
"But suppose now that a contrary measure should be adopted, that a tax should be raised on corn for the purpose of affording a fund for a bounty on the production of commodities."
"Clothes and household furniture, in the same manner, sometimes yield a revenue, and thereby serve in the function of a capital to particular persons."
"Such a bounty upon the importation of Scotch flax in England would have been too great a discouragement to the native produce of the southern part of the united kingdom."
"The same quantity of money would, in this case, equally have remained in the country, and there would, besides, have been a reproduction of an equal value of consumable goods."
"But we have shown that the extent of effective saving is necessarily determined by the scale of investment and that the scale of investment is promoted by a low rate of interest, provided that we do not attempt to stimulate it in this way beyond the point which corresponds to full employment."
"This regulation, instead of preventing, has been found from experience to increase the evil of usury."
"per quarter in addition for wheat, and in some smaller proportion for other necessaries, they would not be able to subsist on the same wages as before, and to keep up the race of labourers."
"In countries, on the contrary, where there is either no uncultivated land, or none that can be had upon easy terms, every artificer who has acquired more stock than he can employ in the occasional jobs of the neighbourhood, endeavours to prepare work for more distant sale."
"Rent, it must be remembered, is not in proportion to the absolute fertility of the land in cultivation, but in proportion to its relative fertility."
"They are so far, perhaps, more inconsistent than even the mercantile system."
"But taxes on necessaries do not affect the consumers of necessaries, in proportion to the quantity that may be consumed by them, but often in a much higher proportion."
"The monetary authority often tends in practice to concentrate upon short term debts and to leave the price of long term debts to be influenced by belated and imperfect reactions from the price of short term"
"Under the local or provincial administration of the justices of the peace in Great Britain, the six days labour which the country people are obliged to give to the reparation of the highways, is not always, perhaps, very judiciously applied, but it is scarce ever exacted with any circumstance of cruelty or oppression."
"These varied occupations present an almost infinite variety of objects to the contemplation of those few, who, being attached to no particular occupation themselves, have leisure and inclination to examine the occupations of other people."
"All merchants, therefore, and almost all men of business, find it convenient to keep such cash accounts with them, and are thereby interested to promote the trade of those companies, by readily receiving their notes in all payments, and by encouraging all those with whom they have any influence to do the same."
"The management of the silk worm, and the preparation of silk, requires so much hand labour, and labour is so very dear in America, that even this great bounty, I have been informed, was not likely to produce any considerable effect."
"The strength of a bridge must be suited to the number and weight of the carriages which are likely to pass over it."
"During this latter term, he is called the companion of his master, and the term itself is called his companionship."
"He likewise forfeits to the king all his lands, goods, and chattels; is declared an alien in every respect; and is put out of the king's protection."
"at some previous point during the gradual decline of the rate of interest."
"It does not, however, seem essential to the nature of the trade that it should be so."
"Perhaps I can best express to French readers what I claim for this book by saying that in the theory of production it is a final break away from the doctrines of."
"If they could all raise the price of their goods, so as to remunerate themselves, with a profit, for the tax; as they are all consumers of each other's commodities, it is obvious that the tax could never be paid; for who would be the contributors if all were compensated?"
"The high profits of British stock, however, may contribute towards raising the price of British manufacture in many cases as much, and in some perhaps more, than the high wages of British labour."
"Their own distress, of which this prudent and necessary reserve of the banks was, no doubt, the immediate occasion"
"The great experience of this judicious merchant renders his opinion of considerable weight."
"The boys who are put out apprentices from public charities are generally bound for more than the usual number of years, and they generally turn out very idle and worthless."
"If the hunter urged the plea of his paying a large proportion, or the value of a large proportion of his game for wages, as an inducement to the fisherman to give him more fish in exchange for his game, the latter would state that he was equally affected by the same cause; and therefore under all variations of wages and profits, under all the effects of accumulation of capital, as long as they continued by a day's labour to obtain respectively the same quantity of fish, and the same quantity of game, the natural rate of exchange would be, one deer for two salmon."
"Such enhancements of the market price may last as long as the regulations of policy which give occasion to them."
"But in the particular counties of Kent and Sussex, the restrictions are still more troublesome."
"Money would in some degree have changed its value in the two countries it would be lowered in England, and raised in Portugal."
"The gold and silver money which circulates in any country may very properly be compared to a highway, which, while it circulates and carries to market all the grass and corn of the country, produces itself not a single pile of either."
"interest, the common legal and market rate of those times."
"In proportion to the quantity or measure, Scotch corn generally appears to be a good deal cheaper than English; but, in proportion to its quality, it is certainly somewhat dearer."
"the precautionary motive, ie the desire for security as to the future cash equivalent of a certain proportion of total resources; and (iii)"
"For the encouragement of tillage, therefore, by providing a market for the home produce, the importance of the inland trade must be to that of the exportation trade as thirty to one."
"Fourthly, farmers and country labourers can no more augment, without parsimony, the real revenue, the annual produce of the land and labour of their society, than artificers, manufacturers, and merchants."
"Those arts were not introduced into France till the reign of Charles"
"Otherwise they will rise in a smaller proportion."
"If that coercive power were entirely taken away, they would probably soon break out into open violence and bloodshed."
"But the money which, by this annual diminution of produce, is annually thrown out ofdomestic circulation, will not be allowed to lie idle."
"They can be wrought advantageously by nobody but the landlord, who, being himself the undertaker of the work, gets the ordinary profit of the capital which he employs in it."
"These, and most other things which are sold by retail, the way in which the labouring poor buy all things, are generally fully as cheap, or cheaper, in great towns than in the remoter parts of the country, for reasons which I shall have occasion to explain hereafter."
"It enables them both to enjoy more and to produce more, in proportion to what she enjoys and produces."
"Moreover, in the case of fixed capital, the increase or decrease of unused capacity corresponds to the increase or decrease in unsold stocks in its effect on decisions to produce; and I do not see how Mr Hawtrey's method can handle this at least equally important factor."
"Thus the professional investor is forced to concern himself with the anticipation of impending changes, in the news or in the atmosphere, of the kind by which experience shows that the mass psychology of the market is most influenced."
"The government of such a state is very apt to repose itself upon this ability and willingness of its subjects to lend it their money on extraordinary occasions."
"which is the most natural attitude of the 'natural man' in a money economy."
"Even in the islands where they have settlements, they have very much reduced, it is said, the number of those trees."
"It will be convenient, in accordance with tradition, to designate the older opinion as mercantilism and the newer as free trade, though these terms, since each of them has both a broader and a narrower signification, must be interpreted with reference to the context."
"Upon other occasions, the order has been reversed; and a rich field of rice or other grain has been ploughed up, in order to make room for a plantation of poppies, when the chief foresaw that extraordinary profit was likely to be made by opium."
"The merchant importers, like all other merchants, we may believe, endeavour, as well as they can, to suit their occasional importations to what they judge is likely to be the immediate demand."
"or less, depending entirely on the alteration in the relative market value of gold and silver."
"But whatever may be the amount of this sum, the proportion which it bears to the whole mass of bank money is supposed to be very small."
"In countries ill cultivated, and worse inhabited, the greater part of landlords and farmers could not otherwise provide themselves with the extraordinary number of hands which country labour requires at certain seasons."
"The princes who have dared in this manner to rebel against the church, over and above this crime of rebellion, have generally been charged, too, with the additional crime of heresy, notwithstanding their solemn protestations of their faith, and humble submission to every tenet which she thought proper to prescribe to them."
"The competition of the different dealers obliges them all to accept of this price, but does not oblige them to accept of less."
"The apparent profits of the wealthy retailer, therefore, are there more nearly upon a level with those of the wholesale merchant."
"So far as their quantity in any particular country depends upon the former of those two circumstances (the power of purchasing), their real price, like that of all other luxuries and superfluities, is likely to rise with the wealth and improvement of the country, and to fall with its poverty and depression."
"The interest which occasioned the first settlement of the different European colonies in America and the West Indies, was not altogether so plain and distinct as that which directed the establishment of those of ancient Greece and Rome."
"It will be seen that our definition of net income comes very close to Marshall's definition of income, when he decided to take refuge in the practices of the Income Tax Commissioners and<U+F8E7>broadly speaking to regard as income whatever they, with their experience, choose to treat as such."
"The greater the revenue of the people, therefore, the greater the annual produce of their land and labour,"
"Adam Smith has justly observed, that it is extremely difficult to determine the rate of the profits of stock."
"Thus, in the neighbourhood of a great town, the demand for milk, and for forage to horses, frequently contribute, together with the high price of butcher's meat, to raise the value of grass above what may be called its natural proportion to that of corn."
"Corn, accordingly, it has already been observed, is, in all the different stages of wealth and improvement, a more accurate measure of value than any other commodity or set of commodities."
"Such was the supposed instability of government, that even these terms procured few purchasers."
"Where the church benefices are all nearly equal, none of them can be very great; and this mediocrity of benefice, though it may be, no doubt, carried too far, has, however, some very agreeable effects."
"The manufactures of Manchester, Birmingham, and Wolverhampton, are many of them, upon this account, not within the statute, not having been exercised in England before the th of Elizabeth."
"But a simple augmentation is an injustice of open violence; whereas an adulteration is an injustice of treacherous fraud."
"Unjust, however, as such prohibitions may be, they have not hitherto been very hurtful to the colonies."
"This operation could not augment, in the smallest degree, the quantity of money to be lent."
"We have no need of a quantitative comparison between this output and the output which would result from associating a different set of workers with a different capital equipment."
"In the first way are employed the capitals of all those who undertake improvement or cultivation of lands, mines, or fisheries; in the second, those of all master manufacturers; in the third, those of all wholesale merchants; and in the fourth, those of all retailers."
"of the rate or value, was laid upon all French goods; while the goods of other nations were, the greater part of them, subjected to much lighter duties, seldom exceeding five percent."
"If a tax were laid on the home manufacturer, and not on the importer of cloth, capital might be injuriously driven from the manufacture of cloth to the manufacture of some other commodity, as it might then be imported cheaper than it could be made at home."
"the whole amount of profits will be."
"It may be said that I have taken it for granted, that money wages would rise with a rise in the price of raw produce, but that this is by no means a necessary consequence, as the labourer may be contented with fewer enjoyments."
"The privileges of graduates are a sort of statutes of apprenticeship, which have contributed to the improvement of education just as the other statutes of apprenticeship have to that of arts and manufactures."
"It is true, that on the best land, the same produce would still be obtained with the same labour as before, but its value would be enhanced in consequence of the diminished returns obtained by those who employed fresh labour and stock on the less fertile land."
"All other debtors in the state were allowed the same privilege, and might pay with the same nominal sum of the new and debased coin whatever they had borrowed in the old."
"If the opinion of their own utility could not draw scholars to them, the law neither forced anybody to go to them, nor rewarded anybody for having gone to them."
"But it is now time to return from this long digression, into which I have been insensibly led, in endeavouring to explain the reasons why the exchange between the countries which pay in what is called bank money, and those which pay in common currency, should generally appear to be in favour of the former, and against the latter."
"His subjects, upon ordinary occasions, contribute nothing to his support, except when, in order to protect them from the oppression of some of their fellow subjects, they stand in need of his authority."
"Towards the declension of the Roman republic, the allies of Rome, who had borne the principal burden of defending the state and extending the empire, demanded to be admitted to all the privileges of Roman citizens."
"In this way interest cost and current supplementary cost enter indirectly into the calculation of user cost."
"The greater part of this paper was, consequently, over and above the value of the gold and silver which would have circulated in the country, had there been no paper money."
"They endeavoured, therefore, to annihilate his trade altogether."
"From some it derives a flavour which no culture or management can equal, it is supposed, upon any other."
"The three capital improvements are, first, the exchange of the rock and spindle for the spinning wheel, which, with the same quantity of labour, will perform more than double the quantity of work."
"On the contrary, when they are secure of enjoying the fruits of their industry, they naturally exert it to better their condition, and to acquire not only the necessaries, but the conveniencies and elegancies of life."
"Adam Smith has stated that capitals are increased by parsimony, that every frugal man is a public benefactor, and that the increase of wealth depends upon the balance of produce above consumption."
"The saving and the investment, which are relevant to the theory of employment, are clear of this defect, and are capable of objective definition, as we have shown above."
"Money is neither a material to work upon, nor a tool to work with; and though the wages of the workman are commonly paid to him in money, his real revenue, like that of all other men, consists, not in the money, but in the money's worth; not in the metal pieces, but in what can be got for them."
"But in the one case, he who had a shilling in his pocket would be no richer than he who has a penny at present; and in the other, he who had a penny would be just as rich as he who has a shilling now."
"But when we say that a man is worth fifty or a hundred pounds a year, we mean commonly to express, not only the amount of the metal pieces which are annually paid to him, but the value of the goods which he can annually purchase or consume; we mean commonly to ascertain what is or ought to be his way of living, or the quantity and quality of the necessaries and conveniencies of life in which he can with propriety indulge himself."
"Without affirming or denying, that the actual practice of Europe with regard to their colonies is injurious to the mother countries, I may be permitted to doubt whether a mother country may not sometimes be benefited by the restraints to which she subjects her colonial possessions."
"If he does not, what he is very likely to do, spend upon those pleasures so great a part of his revenue as to debilitate very much the defensive power of the state, it cannot well be expected that he should not spend upon them all that part of it which is over and above what is necessary for supporting that defensive power."
"so money, by means of which the whole revenue of the society is regularly distributed among all its different members, makes itself no part of that revenue."
"We are reminded of 'The Fable of the Bees'<U+F8E7>the gay of tomorrow are absolutely indispensable to provide a raison d' tre for the grave of to day."
"Suppose with a given capital, the labour of a certain number of men produced pair of stockings, and that by inventions in machinery, the same number of men can produce pair, or that they can continue to produce pair, and can produce besides hats; then the value of the pair of stockings; or of the pair of stockings, and hats, will be neither more nor less than that of the pair of stockings before the introduction of machinery; for they will be the produce of the same quantity of labour."
"This supposition will not, I believe, be found anywhere agreeable to the truth; but it is the most favourable to the opinion which we are going to examine; and, even upon this supposition, it is utterly impossible that the lowering of the value of silver could have the smallest tendency to lower the rate of interest."
"upon their capital; and that whatever remained of their revenues and neat profits at home should be divided into four parts; three of them to be paid into the exchequer for the use of the public, and the fourth to be reserved as a fund, either for the further reduction of their bond debts, or for the discharge of other contingent exigencies which the company might labour under."
"on his original capital, profits would not at that time be really at a higher rate than percent."
"They raise its value, and thereby contribute to encourage its increase."
"As long as nothing stops their progress, as long as they can go on from one district, of which they have consumed the forage, to another, which is yet entire; there seems to be scarce any limit to the number who can march on together."
"The doctrine did not reappear in respectable circles for another century, until in the later phase of Malthus the notion of the insufficiency of effective demand takes a definite place as a scientific explanation of unemployment."
"They flattered themselves that veins of those metals might in many places be found, as large and as abundant as those which are commonly found of lead, or copper, or tin, or iron."
"The largest falls upon those subject to the taille, who are assessed to the capitation at so much a pound of what they pay to that other tax."
"These are obstacles in the way of gratuitous enjoyment; obstacles from which result a real expense of production; because we are obliged to pay for the assistance of these agents of production."
"Of the eight voyages which their ships made to Greenland, they were gainers by one, and losers by all the rest."
"The labour of menial servants does not continue the existence of the fund which maintains and employs them."
"If, on the contrary, in any particular country, their quantity fell short of the effectual demand, so as to raise their price above that of the neighbouring countries, the government would have no occasion to take any pains to import them."
"When it came into the hands of those who had advanced their money to government, though it was, in some respects, a new capital to them, it was not so to the country, but was only a capital withdrawn from certain employments, in order to be turned towards others."
"The same extent of ground not only maintains a greater number of cattle, but as they are brought within a smaller compass, less labour becomes requisite to tend them, and to collect their produce."
"While Portugal was under thedominion of Spain, Brazil was attacked by the Dutch, who got possession of seven of the fourteen provinces into which it is divided."
"All the implements necessary to kill the beaver and deer might belong to one class of men, and the labour employed in their destruction might be furnished by another class; still, their comparative prices would be in proportion to the actual labour bestowed, both on the formation of the capital, and on the destruction of the animals."
"In Great Britain, and some other northern countries, the finer fruits cannot be brought to perfection but by the assistance of a wall."
"Such encouragements do not tend to turn towards any particular employment a greater share of the capital of the country, than what would go to that employment of its own accord, but only to hinder the duty from driving away any part of that share to other employments."
"To the extent that consumption is satisfied by the latter, there is a contraction of current demand, since to that extent a part of current expenditure fails to find its way back as a part of net income."
"It follows that of two equal communities, having the same technique but different stocks of capital, the community with the smaller stocks of capital may be able for the time being to enjoy a higher standard of life than the community with the larger stock; though when the poorer community has caught up the rich<U+F8E7>as, presumably, it eventually will<U+F8E7>then both alike will suffer the fate of Midas."
"In buying gold of Portugal, indeed, we buy it at the first hand; whereas, in buying it of any other nation, except Spain, we should buy it at the second, and might pay somewhat dearer."
"The merchant or monied man makes money by lending money to government, and instead of diminishing, increases his trading capital."
"The ordinary revolutions of war and government easily dry up the sources of that wealth which arises from commerce only."
"In these circumstances, the rent of a great landed estate might, upon ordinary occasions, very well defray all the necessary expenses of government."
"When the most fertile and best situated lands have been all occupied, less profit can be made by the cultivation of what is inferior both in soil and situation, and less interest can be afforded for the stock which is so employed."
"That order of things which necessity imposes, in general, though not in every particular country, is in every particular country promoted by the natural inclinations of man."
"But the whole quantity of poultry which the farm in this manner produces without expense, must always be much smaller than the whole quantity of butcher's meat which is reared upon it; and in times of wealth and luxury, what is rare, with only nearly equal merit, is always preferred to what is common."
"The sovereign, for example, with all the officers both of justice and war who serve under him, the whole army and navy, are unproductive labourers."
"That a little more plenty than ordinary may render some workmen idle, cannot be well doubted; but that it should have this effect upon the greater part, or that men in general should work better when they are ill fed, than when they are well fed, when they are disheartened than when they are in good spirits, when they are frequently sick than when they are generally in good health, seems not very probable."
"It seems to have been a common practice among our ancestors during the violence of the feudal government."
"Similarly when there is a poor harvest, the carry over is drawn upon for current consumption, so that a corresponding part of the income expenditure of the consumers creates no current income for the farmers."
"In this respect, therefore, all the European colonies have, without exception, been a cause rather of weakness than of strength to their respective mother countries."
"of the value of the deposit for which their respective receipts had been granted."
"Unless those few, however, happen to be placed in some very particular situations, their great abilities, though honourable to themselves, may contribute very little to the good government or happiness of their society."
"The transference of stock or moveable property, from the living to the living, by the lending of money, is frequently a secret transaction, and may always be made so."
"In such case indeed capital would be withdrawn from agriculture; for if the price were not increased by the whole amount of the tax, agricultural profits would be lower than the general level of profits, and capital would seek more advantageous employment."
"It will by no means follow, however, that the real exchange was against it."
"Now if each of these persons were to be taxed percent."
"One man considers money as a standard of value, and a nation grows richer or poorer, according to him, in proportion as its commodities of all kinds can exchange for more or less money."
"All trades and manufactures, too, even the retail trade, were carried on by the slaves of the rich for the benefit of their masters, whose wealth, authority, and protection, made it difficult for a poor freeman to maintain the competition against them."
"A man grows rich by employing a multitude of manufacturers; he grows poor by maintaining a multitude or menial servants."
"The Spanish armies, though they scarce ever exceeded five hundred men, and frequently did not amount to half that number, found almost everywhere great difficulty in procuring subsistence."
"But, as it might be troublesome for the receiver to prosecute the whole parish, he takes at his choice five or six of the richest contributors, and obliges them to make good what had been lost by the insolvency of the collector."
"Sinking funds have generally arisen, not so much from any surplus of the taxes which was over and above"
"When, instead either of a certain portion of the produce of land, or of the price of a certain portion, a certain sum of money is to be paid in full compensation for all tax or tythe; the tax becomes, in this case, exactly of the same nature with the land tax of England."
"In England, the seat of government being in the greatest mercantile city in the world, the merchants are generally the people who advance money to government."
"Moreover, it involves in part a duplication of a proportion of the entrepreneur's risk, which is added twice to the pure rate of interest to give the minimum prospective yield which will induce the investment."
"Increase the scarcity of gold to a certain degree, and the smallest bit of it may become more precious than a diamond, and exchange for a greater quantity of other goods."
"The banker, who advances to the merchant whose bill he discounts, not gold and silver, but his own promissory notes, has the advantage of being able to discount to a greater amount by the whole value of his promissory notes, which he finds, by experience, are commonly in circulation."
"I must not be taken to deny this, because I assert that a state of full investment in the strict sense has never yet occurred, not even momentarily."
"But it ought to be remembered, that when the wisest government has exhausted all the proper subjects of taxation, it must, in cases of urgent necessity, have recourse to improper ones."
"The singular countries of Holland and Zealand, besides, require a considerable expense even to preserve their existence, or to prevent their being swallowed up by the sea, which must have contributed to increase considerably the load of taxes in those two provinces."
"It is found to do so even at Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, where the wages of common labour are so very high."
"The funds which maintained the foreign wars of the present century, the most expensive perhaps which history records, seem to have had little dependency upon the exportation either of the circulating money, or of the plate of private families, or of the treasure of the prince."
"The abbot, in the same manner, was elected by the monks of the monastery, at least in the greater part of abbacies."
"These prices are not recorded, on account of their extraordinary dearness or cheapness, but are mentioned accidentally, as the prices actually paid for large quantities of grain consumed at a feast, which was famous for its magnificence."
"To oblige a creditor, therefore, to accept of this as full payment for a debt of actually paid down in ready money, was an act of such violent injustice, as has scarce, perhaps, been attempted by the government of any other country which pretended to be free."
"these ten quarters would equally constitute rent; for the cultivator of No. would get the same result with his capital, whether he cultivated No."
"Though posterior in their establishment, yet all the arts of refinement, philosophy, poetry, and eloquence, seem to have been cultivated as early, and to have been improved as highly in them as in any part of the mother country."
"If more or less labour were required in the production of the other commodity, we have already stated that this will immediately occasion an alteration in its relative value, but such alteration is owing to the altered quantity of requisite labour, and not to the rise of wages."
"On the contrary, landlords have a most decided interest in the rise of the natural price of corn; for the rise of rent is the inevitable consequence of the difficulty of producing raw produce, without which its natural price could not rise."
"A small proprietor, however, who knows every part of his little territory, views it with all the affection which property, especially small property, naturally inspires, and who upon that account takes pleasure, not only in cultivating, but in adorning it, is generally of all improvers the most industrious, the most intelligent, and the most successful."
"They naturally, perhaps necessarily, follow the mode of the times; and their expense comes to be regulated by the same extravagant vanity which directs that of all the other great proprietors in theirdominions."
"Nobody will lend his money for less interest to those who exercise the taxed, than to those who exercise the untaxed employments."
"But we must not conclude that the mean position thus determined by 'natural' tendencies, namely, by those tendencies which are likely to persist, failing measures expressly designed to correct them, is, therefore, established by laws of necessity."
"The labourers and labouring cattle, therefore, employed in agriculture, not only occasion, like the workmen in manufactures, the reproduction of a value equal to their own consumption, or to the capital which employs them, together with its owner's profits, but of a much greater value."
"By raising up too hastily one species of industry, it would depress another more valuable species of industry."
"Dr. Smith's view of this subject is probably the reason why he has described the tithe, and every other land tax of this kind, under the appearance of perfect equality, as very unequal taxes; a certain portion of the produce being in different situations, equivalent to a very different portion of the rent."
"The masters who instructed the young people, either in music or in military exercises, do not seem to have been paid, or even appointed by the state, either in Rome or even at Athens, the Greek republic of whose laws and customs we are the best informed."
"Agriculture, therefore, can support itself under the discouragement of a confined market much better than manufactures."
"Annuities for lives have occasionally been granted in two different ways; either upon separate lives, or upon lots of lives, which, in French, are called tontines, from the name of their inventor."
"As the great prizes in the lottery are less, the smaller ones must be more numerous."
"The claim of collating to the great benefices of the church, a claim in defence of which the court of Rome had frequently shaken, and sometimes overturned, the thrones of some of the greatest sovereigns in Christendom, was in this manner either restrained or modified, or given up altogether, in many different parts of Europe, even before the time of the reformation."
"If corn, olives, oil, wine, and wool, be at a cheaper price in Spain than in England; estimated in those commodities, gold is dearer in Spain."
"And when buss herrings are entered for home consumption in Scotland, and pay the shilling a barrel of duty, the bounty stands thus, to wit, as before From which the shilling a barrel is to be deducted But to that there is to be added again, the duty of the foreign salt used curing a barrel of herring viz So that the premium allowed for each barrel of her rings entered for home consumption"
"If, by the introduction of a course of turnips, I can feed my sheep besides raising my corn, the land on which the sheep were fed becomes unnecessary, and the same quantity of raw produce is raised by the employment of a less quantity of land."
"But his accumulation would not grow."
"The prejudices of some political writers against shopkeepers and tradesmen are altogether without foundation."
"If after the tax the prices of corn and of every other commodity should remain the same as before, money rent as well as corn rent, would continue unaltered; but if the price of corn, and every other commodity should rise in consequence of the tax, money rent will also rise in the same proportion."
"But had it not been for those institutions, they would not have been commonly taught at all; and both the individual and the public would have suffered a good deal from the want of those important parts of education."
"Clothing and lodging, household furniture, and what is called equipage, are the principal objects of the greater part of those wants and fancies."
"The price of the receipt, and the price of the bank money, compound or make up between them the full value or price of the bullion."
"If capital becomes less scarce, the excess yield will diminish, without its having become less productive<U+F8E7>at least in the physical sense."
"It has accordingly done so, I believe, more or less in every country."
"If, upon less than eight millions of inhabitants, this system of taxation raises a revenue of more than ten millions sterling; it ought, upon thirteen millions of inhabitants, to raise a revenue of more than sixteen millions two hundred and fifty thousand pounds sterling."
"This is in some degree true; but that capital which consists of cattle, sheep, hay and corn ricks, carts, andc."
"continued to be the legal rate of interest."
"The blacks, accordingly, have almost everywhere their allowance of rum, and of molasses or spruce beer, in the same manner as the white servants; and this allowance would not probably be withdrawn, though those articles should be subjected to moderate duties."
"Though the annual purchases of all the consumers, therefore, are at least equal in value to those of all the dealers, they can generally be transacted with a much smaller quantity of money;"
"The cheapness of the manufactures of those landed nations, in consequence of the gradual improvements of art and skill, would, in due time, extend their sale beyond the home market, and carry them to many foreign markets, from which they would, in the same manner, gradually justle out many of the manufacturers of such mercantile nations."
"It is rather for the manufactured than for the rude produce of Europe, that the colony trade opens a new market."
"How then are these highly significant daily, even hourly, revaluations of existing investments carried out in practice?"
"If the teacher happens to be a man of sense, it must be an unpleasant thing to him to be conscious, while he is lecturing to his students, that he is either speaking or reading nonsense, or what is very little better than nonsense."
"The same cause gradually led them to dismiss the unnecessary part of their tenants."
"If, notwithstanding a great rise in the price, it still continues to prevail through a considerable part of the country, it is owing in many places, no doubt, to ignorance and attachment to old customs, but, in most places, to the unavoidable obstructions which the natural course of things opposes to the immediate or speedy establishment of a better system:"
"If<U+F8E7>for whatever reason<U+F8E7>the rate of interest cannot fall as fast as the marginal efficiency of capital would fall with a rate of accumulation corresponding to what the community would choose to save at a rate of interest equal to the marginal efficiency of capital in conditions of full employment, then even a diversion of the desire to hold wealth towards assets, which will in fact yield no economic fruits whatever, will increase economic well being."
"Or, secondly, by maintaining and employing a certain number of citizens in the constant practice of military exercises, it may render the trade of a soldier a particular trade, separate and distinct from all others."
"Rent may be lower in a country where lands are exceedingly fertile than in a country where they yield a moderate return, it being in proportion rather to relative than absolute fertility to the value of the produce, and not to its abundance."
"But here again, whether or not this conclusion is plausible a priori, experience shows that some such psychological law must actually hold."
"But though labour be the real measure of the exchangeable value of all commodities, it is not that by which their value is commonly estimated."
"the bank delivered up two millions of exchequer Bills to be cancelled."
"The 'New Deal' partly consisted in a strenuous attempt to reduce these stocks<U+F8E7>by curtailment of current output and in all sorts of ways."
"The position could only be saved by some complicated assumption providing for an automatic change in the wage unit of an amount just sufficient in its effect on liquidity preference to establish a rate of interest which would just offset the supposed shift, so as to leave output at the same level as before."
"It was the old Scotch duty upon a bushel of salt, the quantity which, at a low estimation, had been supposed necessary for curing a barrel of herrings."
"But if, by an order from Europe, they are prohibited from doing this, they will, notwithstanding, endeavour to establish a monopoly of the same kind secretly and indirectly, in a way that is much more destructive to the country."
"Or again, in Great Britain at the present time the substantial amount of house building and of other new investments since the war has led to an amount of sinking funds being set up much in excess of any present requirements for expenditure on repairs and renewals, a tendency which has been accentuated, where the investment has been made by local authorities and public boards, by the principles of 'sound' finance which often require sinking funds sufficient to write off the initial cost some time before replacement will actually fall due; with the result that even if private individuals were ready to spend the whole of their net incomes it would be a severe task to restore full employment in the face of this heavy volume of statutory provision by public and semi public authorities, entirely dissociated from any corresponding new investment."
"Both in the years of plenty and in years of scarcity, therefore, the bounty necessarily tends to raise the money price of corn somewhat higher than it otherwise would be in the home market."
"When a high price of corn is the effect of an increasing demand, it is always preceded by an increase of wages, for demand cannot increase, without an increase of means in the people to pay for that which they desire."
"Let us consider them in turn."
"During the reigns of king William and queen Anne, large sums were frequently borrowed upon annuities for terms of years, which were sometimes longer and sometimes shorter."
"If this were true, competition between entrepreneurs would always lead to an expansion of employment up to the point at which the supply of output as a whole ceases to be elastic, ie where a further increase in the value of the effective demand will no longer be accompanied by any increase in output."
"Such comfort as we can fairly take from more encouraging reflections must be drawn from the hope that, precisely because the convention is not rooted in secure knowledge, it will not be always unduly resistant to a modest measure of persistence and consistency of purpose by the monetary authority."
"We must, however, guard against a misunderstanding."
"Fear is in almost all cases a wretched instrument of govermnent, and ought in particular never to be employed against any order of men who have the smallest pretensions to independency."
"we might aim, perhaps, at so modifying the propensity to consume that with full employment consumption would rise from to and"
"The wages of labour have been continually increasing during the same period, and, in the greater part of the different branches of trade and manufactures, the profits of stock have been diminishing."
"In conditions of laissez faire"
"The inland parts of the country can for a long time have no other market for the greater part of their goods, but the country which lies round about them, and separates them from the sea coast, and the great navigable rivers."
"One of these errors lies in supposing rent to be a clear gain and a new creation of riches."
"For its actual value is largely governed by the prevailing view as to what its value is expected to be."
"Bounties upon production, it has been said too, have been found by experience more liable to frauds than those upon exportation."
"per annum, he would not lock it up in a chest, but would either increase his expenses by."
"Marriage is encouraged in China, not by the profitableness of children, but by the liberty of destroying them."
"Of all those expensive and uncertain projects, however, which bring bankruptcy upon the greater part of the people who engage in them, there is none, perhaps, more perfectly ruinous than the search after new silver and gold mines."
"They have obtained likewise the drawback of two thirds of the excise duties imposed upon their commodity, even when exported without further manufacture."
"Usury laws have been directed primarily against encumbrances of this character."
"he is making on capital account."
"The followers of Zuinglius, or more properly those of Calvin, on the contrary, bestowed upon the people of each parish, whenever the church became vacant, the right of electing their own pastor; and established, at the same time, the most perfect equality among the clergy."
"That it has very much contributed to it there can be no doubt."
"The ratio, thus determined, between an increment of investment and the corresponding increment of aggregate income, both measured in wage units, is given by the investment multiplier."
"But the nominal sum which constitutes the market price of every commodity is necessarily regulated, not so much by the quantity of silver, which, according to the standard, ought to be contained in it, as by that which, it is found by experience, actually is contained in it."
"Raw produce is not at a monopoly price, because the market price of barley and wheat is as much regulated by their cost of production, as the market price of cloth and linen."
"Suppose that the demand is for a million of quarters of corn, and that they are the produce of the land actually in cultivation."
"Industry, therefore, must be better rewarded, the wages of labour and the profits of stock must evidently be greater, in the one situation than in the other."
"If Portugal had no commercial connexion with other countries, instead of employing a great part of her capital and industry in the production of wines, with which she purchases for her own use the cloth and hardware of other countries, she would be obliged to devote a part of that capital to the manufacture of those commodities, which she would thus obtain probably inferior in quality as well as quantity."
"The province of Holland, on the other hand, in proportion to the extent of its territory and the number of its people, is a richer country than England."
"It is seen how very much this argument was in the air at the time. ."
"The government of both countries was particularly attentive to the interest of agriculture."
"These gradually furnished the great proprietors with something for which they could exchange the whole surplus produce of their lands, and which they could consume themselves, without sharing it either with tenants or retainers."
"In the following book, I have endeavoured to explain the nature of stock, the effects of its accumulation into capital of different kinds, and the effects of the different employments of those capitals."
"The surplus is too valuable to be allowed to lie idle and locked up in coffers; and as it can find no advantageous market at home, it must, notwithstanding; any prohibition, be sent abroad, and exchanged for something for which there is a more advantageous market at home."
"In other countries, much greater and more extensive jurisdictions were frequently granted to them."
"So great a share of the annual produce of the land and labour of the country, has, since the Revolution, been employed upon different occasions, in maintaining an extraordinary number of unproductive hands."
"For it is unlikely that full employment can be maintained, whatever we may do about investment, with the existing propensity to consume."
"The interests of commerce have frequently made it necessary to maintain ministers in foreign countries, where the purposes either of war or alliance would not have required any."
"But if those consumable goods were purchased directly with the produce of English industry, it would be more for the advantage of England, than first to purchase with that produce the gold of Portugal, and afterwards to purchase with that gold those consumable goods."
"But the case of the farmer of the old and better land will be in no way different; he also will have increased wages to pay, and will never retain more of the value of the produce, however high may be its price, than."
"The authority of an Arabian scherif is very great; that of a Tartar khan altogether despotical."
"upon the exportation of the quarter of wheat raises the price of that commodity in the home market only."
"Bounties on exportation or importation, new taxes on commodities, sometimes by their direct, and at other times by their indirect operation, disturb the natural trade of barter, and produce a consequent necessity of importing or exporting money, in order that prices may be accommodated to the natural course of commerce; and this effect is produced not only in the country where the disturbing cause takes place, but, in a greater or less degree, in every country of the commercial world."
"Secondly, by rendering the gabelle, the aides, the traites, the taxes upon tobacco, all the different customs and excises, uniform in all the different parts of the kingdom, those taxes might be levied at much less expense, and the interior commerce of the kingdom might be rendered as free as that of England."
"The mercantilists perceived the existence of the problem without being able to push their analysis to the point of solving it."
"Thus Germany, quite contrary to her habit in most of the sciences, has been content for a whole century to do without any formal theory of economics which was predominant and generally accepted."
"In the Ehglish prohibited the importation of bone lace, the manufacture of Flanders."
"There is not, probably, between any two countries, a trade which consists altogether in the exchange, either of native commodities on both sides, or of native commodities on one side, and of foreign goods on the other."
"But the rise in the price of provisions, which has been the subject of so much reasoning and conversation, does not affect all sorts of provisions equally."
"When the public expense is defrayed by funding, it is defrayed by the annual destruction of some capital which had before existed in the country; by the perversion of some portion of the annual produce which had before been destined for the maintenance of productive labour, towards that of unproductive labour."
"It is, however, so perfectly false, that English wool is in any respect necessary for the making of fine cloth, that it is altogether unfit for it."
"Five different events, unforeseen and unthought of, have very fortunately concurred to hinder Great Britain from feeling, so sensibly as it was generally expected she would, the total exclusion which has now taken place for more than a year (from the first of December from a very important branch of the colony trade, that of the twelve associated provinces of North America."
"It does not affect the poor."
"Not only the art of the farmer, the general direction of the operations of husbandry, but many inferior branches of country labour require much more skill and experience than the greater part of mechanic trades."
"With a given quantity of materials, and with the assistance of the pressure of the atmosphere, and the elasticity of steam, engines may perform work, and abridge human labour to a very great extent; but no charge is made for the use of these natural aids, because they are inexhaustible, and at every man's disposal."
"When land of the third quality is taken into cultivation, rent immediately commences on the second, and it is regulated as before, by the difference in their productive powers."
"Average Average Average Average ."
"The expense of repairs may frequently be necessary for supporting the produce of the estate, and consequently both the gross and the neat rent of the landlord."
"It may, of course, be the case<U+F8E7>indeed it is likely to be<U+F8E7>that the illusions of the boom cause particular types of capital assets to be produced in such excessive abundance that some part of the output is, on any criterion, a waste of resources;<U+F8E7>which sometimes happens, we may add, even when there is no boom."
"In times of moderate plenty, the importation of foreign corn is loaded with duties that amount to a prohibition."
"The part played by orthodox economists, whose common sense has been insufficient to check their faulty logic, has been disastrous to the latest act."
", a forced levy of real things from the public, thus increasing the stream of real capital available for them, and causing a fall in the real rate of interest on long and short loans alike."
"But the brewer is at present obliged to advance a tax of twenty four or twenty five, sometimes thirty shillings, upon every quarter of malt which he brews."
"Such a workman at the rate of a thousand nails a day, and three hundred working days in the year, will make three hundred thousand nails in the year."
"The extent of the market, by giving employment to greater stocks, diminishes apparent profit; but by requiring supplies from a greater distance, it increases prime cost."
"Now, if mankind attach value to a thing, it is on account of the uses to which it is applicable."
"The real recompence of labour, the real quantity of the necessaries and conveniencies of life which it can procure to the labourer, has, during the course of the present century, increased perhaps in a still greater proportion than its money price."
"If they cannot earn this by their labour, they must make it up, he supposes, either by begging or stealing."
"Watch cases, clock cases, and dial plates for clocks and watches, have been prohibited to be exported."
"It does not seem necessary, however, that the attention of government should be more turned towards the one than towards the other object."
"Moreover, experience suggests that in existing conditions saving by institutions and through sinking funds is more than adequate, and that measures for the redistribution of incomes in a way likely to raise the propensity to consume may prove positively favourable to the growth of capital."
"would it not fall in price?"
"A gentleman drunk with ale has scarce ever been seen among us."
"The relationship between these two things can be cleared up by pointing out, firstly that an unforeseen, or imperfectly foreseen, expansion in the capital goods industries does not have an instantaneous effect of equal amount on the aggregate of investment but causes a gradual increase of the latter; and, secondly, that it may cause a temporary departure of the marginal propensity to consume away from its normal value, followed, however, by a gradual return to it."
"His society (for in this state of things there is properly neither sovereign nor commonwealth) is at no sort of expense, either to prepare him for the field, or to maintain him while he is in it."
"it is of little importance whether I pay it from my revenue, leaving myself only."
"Their skins, therefore, are commonly good for little."
"It consists in the exchange of rude for manufactured produce, either immediately, or by the intervention of money, or of some sort of paper which represents money."
"the exchange will augment the capital of England by."
"In the exclusive trade, it is supposed, consists the great advantage of provinces, which have never yet afforded either revenue or military force for the support of the civil government, or the defence of the mother country."
"The circumstances of gardeners, generally mean, and always moderate, may satisfy us that their great ingenuity is not commonly over recompensed."
"It would have been previously calculated upon by the tenant; and if the price of produce were not sufficient to compensate him for all his expenses, together with this additional charge for poor rates, his improvements would not have been undertaken."
"But the aggravation of the tax, which this may sometimes occasion upon a particular estate, is always so very small, that it never can discourage those improvements, nor keep down the produce of the land below what it would otherwise rise to."
"He consumes it as sparingly as he can, and endeavours, by his labour, to acquire something which may supply its place before it be consumed altogether."
"If ten men turned a corn mill, and it be discovered that by the assistance of wind, or of water, the labour of these ten men may be spared, the flour, which is the produce of the work performed by the mill, would immediately fall in value, in proportion to the quantity of labour saved; and the society would be richer by the commodities which the labour of the ten men could produce, the funds destined for their maintenance being in no degree impaired."
"That system has come gradually more and more into fashion."
"the commodities produced must sell for."
"Accordingly, by the th Geo. I. chap."
"Thus, in the assize of bread and ale, of the st of Henry the price of bread was regulated according to the different prices of wheat, from one shilling to twenty shillings the quarter of the money of those times."
"and if an improvement be afterwards discovered by which it can be raised on No. and without employing No."
"Those improvements in husbandry, too, which the progress of arts and manufactures necessarily introduces, leave the husbandman as little leisure as the artificer."
"The mistake of regarding the marginal efficiency of capital primarily in terms of the current yield of capital equipment, which would be correct only in the static state where there is no changing future to influence the present, has had the result of breaking the theoretical link between today and to morrow."
"interest, and, by taking the management of the bank into its own hands, might make a clear profit of two hundred and sixty nine thousand five hundred pounds a year."
"In the judgment of those ancient improvers, the produce of a kitchen garden had, it seems, been little more than sufficient to pay the extraordinary culture and the expense of watering; for in countries so near the sun, it was thought proper, in those times as in the present, to have the command of a stream of water, which could be conducted to every bed in the garden."
"They have no place of refuge from calamity; they cannot seek safety in a lower station; they are already so low, that they can fall no lower."
"In reality, high profits tend much more to raise the price of work than high wages."
"It was not till the seige of Veii, that they who staid at home began to contribute something towards maintaining those who went to war."
"It is not to be supposed that he should, for any length of time, be ill informed of the commodities which he can most advantageously produce, to attain the object which he has in view, namely, the possession of other goods; and therefore it is not probable that he will continually produce a commodity for which there is no demand."
"The fact that two incommensurable collections of miscellaneous objects cannot in themselves provide the material for a quantitative analysis need not, of course, prevent us from making approximate statistical comparisons, depending on some broad element of judgment rather than of strict calculation, which may possess significance and validity within certain limits."
"By the ancient law of France, as well as by that of most other parts of Europe, the labour of the country people was under the direction of a local or provincial magistracy, which had no immediate dependency upon the king's council."
"Duties upon flour and meal when ground at the mill, and upon bread when baked at the oven, take place in many countries."
"The explanation of this omission is, perhaps, to be found in the assumptions that there is no propensity to hoard and that there is always full employment."
"what comes to the same thing, the price of that part of it, for manufactured produce."
"The Spanish war, which began in and the French war which soon followed it, occasioned a further increase of the debt, which, on the st of December after the war had been concluded by the treaty of Aix la Chapelle, amounted to."
"That it could explain much social injustice and apparent cruelty as an inevitable incident in the scheme of progress, and the attempt to change such things as likely on the whole to do more harm than good, commended it to authority."
"The Spanish colonies are under a government in many respects less favourable to agriculture, improvement, and population, than that of the English colonies."
"Eighteen pence a day may be reckoned the common price of labour in London and its neighbourhood."
"The ancient policy of most other parts of Europe was no better than that of England."
"This rent may be considered as the produce of those powers of Nature, the use of which the landlord lends to the farmer."
"As it is the interest of the freemen of a corporation to hinder the rest of the inhabitants from employing any workmen but themselves; so it is the interest of the merchants and manufacturers of every country to secure to themselves the monopoly of the home market."
"It was objected to those who contended that the currency was at that period depreciated, from the too great abundance of the paper circulation, that, if that were the fact, all commodities ought to have risen in the same proportion; but it was found that many had varied considerably more than others, and thence it was inferred that the rise of prices was owing to something affecting the value of commodities, and not to any alteration in the value of the currency."
"These circumstances, as they are altogether independent ofdomestic industry, so they necessarily render the efficacy of its efforts more or less uncertain."
"Whilst aiming at a socially controlled rate of investment with a view to a progressive decline in the marginal efficiency of capital, I should support at the same time all sorts of policies for increasing the propensity to consume."
"Though the same capital never will maintain the same quantity of productive labour in a distant as in a near employment, yet a distant employment maybe as necessary for the welfare of the society as a near one; the goods which the distant employment deals in being necessary, perhaps, for carrying on many of the nearer employments."
"Though the encouragement of exportation, and the discouragement of importation, are the two great engines by which the mercantile system proposes to enrich every country, yet, with regard to some particular commodities, it seems to follow an opposite plan: to discourage exportation, and to encourage importation."
"A particular country, in the same manner as a particular person, may frequently not have capital sufficient both to improve and cultivate all its lands, to manufacture and prepare their whole rude produce for immediate use and consumption, and to transport the surplus part either of the rude or manufactured produce to those distant markets, where it can be exchanged for something for which there is a demand at home."
"Subsequent historians of doctrine will regard this book as in essentially the same tradition."
"When the public deliberates concerning any regulation of commerce or police, the proprietors of land never can mislead it, with a view to promote the interest of their own particular order; at least, if they have any tolerable knowledge of that interest."
"If he did not raise the rate of his profit, he would be obliged to charge the whole tax upon that part of it which was allotted for the interest of money."
"upon each repetition, must at that period have cost, at least, fourteen percent."
"the exportation of all goods, the produce of manufacture of Great Britain, upon which any duties had been imposed by former statutes, was rendered duty free."
"From the beginning of the reign of Elizabeth, too, the English legislature has been peculiarly attentive to the interest of commerce and manufactures, and in reality there is no country in Europe, Holland itself not excepted, of which the law is, upon the whole, more favourable to this sort of industry."
"per quarter is absolutely lost to the world, by such a distribution of its funds as to cause diminished production, probably not of corn, but of some other object of necessity or enjoyment."
"per gallon, these, added to the duties upon the low wines, from which they are distilled, amount to."
"In consequence of these alterations, the courts, both of the proprietors and directors, it was expected, would be likely to act with more dignity and steadiness than they had usually done before."
"It is with them as with the hussars and light infantry of some armies; no plunder, no pay."
"Such have been the general outlines of the policy of the different European nations with regard to their colonies."
"The fish must generally be sought for at a greater distance, larger vessels must be employed, and more expensive machinery of every kind made use of."
"Great Britain has hitherto suffered her subject and subordinate provinces to disburden themselves upon her of almost this whole expense."
"For the honour of the national humanity, it is to be hoped that neither of these statutes was ever executed."
"all non enumerated commodities were subjected to the like restriction."
"The continual consumption of the precious metals in coin by wearing, and in plate both by wearing and cleaning, is very sensible; and in commodities of which the use is so very widely extended, would alone require a very great annual supply."
"The bank of Amsterdam professes to lend out no part of what is deposited with it, but for every guilder for which it gives credit in its books, to keep in its repositories the value of a guilder either in money or bullion."
"It is by powerful protection only, that he can effectually guard himself against the bad usage to which he is at all times exposed; and this protection he is most likely to gain, not by ability or diligence in his profession, but by obsequiousness to the will of his superiors, and by being ready, at all times, to sacrifice to that will the rights, the interest, and the honour of the body corporate, of which he is a member."
"the distribution of whose capital was highly useful in procuring a supply of food when importation was stopped."
"Secondly, it may be employed in the improvement of land, in the purchase of useful machines and instruments of trade, or in such like things as yield a revenue or profit without changing masters, or circulating any further."
"They might soon have been divided again, and broke into small parcels, either by succession or by alienation."
"It was reduced to a tenth only in the course of the present century."
"The difference between the most dissimilar characters, between a philosopher and a common street porter, for example, seems to arise not so much from nature, as from habit, custom, and education."
"Even in the limiting case where different labour units were so highly specialised as to be altogether incapable of being substituted for one another, there is no awkwardness; for this merely means that the elasticity of supply of output from a particular type of capital equipment falls suddenly to zero when all the available labour specialised to its use is already employed."
"For the windfall gain will wholly accrue to those entrepreneurs who happen to possess products at a relatively advanced stage of production, and there is nothing which the entrepreneur, who does not possess specialised resources of the right kind, can do to attract this gain to himself."
"In the eastern provinces of China, too, several great rivers form, by their different branches, a multitude of canals, and, by communicating with one another, afford an inland navigation much more extensive than that either of the Nile or the Ganges, or, perhaps, than both of them put together."
"It is accounted for, accordingly, in the same manner by every body; and there never has been any dispute, either about the fact, or about the cause of it."
"But it is an essential difference between money and all (or most) other assets that in the case of money its liquidity premium much exceeds its carrying cost, whereas in the case of other assets their carrying cost much exceeds their liquidity premium."
"In what proportion this final payment would be divided between them, it is not, perhaps, very easy to ascertain."
", the whole amount of the annual expenditure, instead of falling from to millions, would fall from to millions."
"The course of exchange is, perhaps, almost equally so."
"It saves the milk, which their price would not pay for."
"Now, where is the income velocity of money as defined above and is the aggregate income."
"It is exported, it is well known, in great quantities."
"It may naturally be thought, at first sight, that the ecclesiastics belong to the first class, and that their encouragement, as well as that of lawyers and physicians, may safely be entrusted to the liberality of individuals, who are attached to their doctrines, and who find benefit or consolation from their spiritual ministry and assistance."
"A balance, therefore, must be paid to the mother country in gold and silver and this balance they generally find."
"In this manner, the same pieces, either of coin or of paper, may, in the course of a few days, serve as the Instrument of three different loans, and of three different purchases, each of which is, in value, equal to the whole amount of those pieces."
"Mr. Buchanan, however, is not of this opinion, for he says, that the great expense to which the Bank was at this time exposed, was occasioned, not, as Dr. Smith seems to imagine, by any imprudent issue of paper, but by the debased state of the currency, and the consequent high price of bullion."
"As the reformation of the silver coin did not then reduce the price of silver bullion to the mint price, it is not very probable that a like reformation will do so now."
"In fact, no answer is possible, unless other factors are included in our data."
"Standing armies are not then necessary; so that the expense, even of a sovereign, like that of any other great lord can be employed in scarce any thing but bounty to his tenants, and hospitality to his retainers."
"But the progress of no one of them seems ever to have been very rapid."
"Justice, however, never was in reality administered gratis in any country."
"Industry, indeed, provides the subject which parsimony accumulates; but whatever industry might acquire, if parsimony did not save and store up, the capital would never be the greater."
"Malthus, indeed, had vehemently opposed Ricardo's doctrine that it was impossible for effective demand to be deficient; but vainly."
"The banks, however, were of a different opinion; and upon their refusing to extend their credits, some of those traders had recourse to an expedient which, for a time, served their purpose, though at a much greater expense, yet as effectually as the utmost extension of bank credits could have done."
"But the owners of the great mercantile capitals are necessarily the leaders and conductors of the whole industry of every nation; and their example has a much greater influence upon the manners of the whole industrious part of it than that of any other order of men."
"But the Scotch merchants, it must be remembered, can discount their bills of exchange as easily as the English merchants; and have, besides, the additional conveniency of their cash accounts."
"Nothing less precious than gold seemed worthy of their attention."
"It would afford a sufficient advantage to the manufacturer, because, though he might not buy his wool altogether so cheap as under the prohibition, he would still buy it at least five or ten shillings cheaper than any foreign manufacturer could buy it, besides saving the freight and insurance which the other would be obliged to pay."
"It would sometimes be gold, sometimes silver, depending entirely on the variations in the relative value of the two metals, and at such times the metal, which was not the standard, would be melted, and withdrawn from circulation, as its value would be greater in bullion than in coin."
"The hardiness of their ordinary life prepares them for the fatigues of war, to some of which their necessary occupations bear a great analogy."
"For the general prosperity, there cannot be too much facility given to the conveyance and exchange of all kinds of property, as it is by such means that capital of every species is likely to find its way into the hands of those who will best employ it in increasing the productions of the country."
"The persons, besides, who enjoy public offices, especially the more lucrative, are, in all countries, the objects of general envy; and a tax upon their emoluments, even though it should be somewhat higher than upon any other sort of revenue, is always a very popular tax."
"The demand for the precious stones arises altogether from their beauty."
"Another interesting personal experience helped to bring home to me the sense of my iniquity."
"The natural good effects of the colony trade, however, more than counterbalance to Great Britain the bad effects of the monopoly; so that, monopoly and altogether, that trade, even as it is carried on at present, is not only advantageous, but greatly advantageous."
"The soil and climate of France are better than those of Great Britain."
"The people, therefore, usually most interested in celebrating the Portugal trade, were then rather disposed to represent it as less advantageous than it had commonly been imagined."
"We may fairly conclude, that whatever inequality there might originally have been in them, whatever the ingenuity, skill, or time necessary for the acquirement of one species of manual dexterity more than another, it continues nearly the same from one generation to another; or at least, that the variation is very inconsiderable from year to year, and therefore, can have little effect for short periods on the relative value of commodities."
"It must be a long time after the first establishment of such colonies, before it can become profitable to feed cattle upon the produce of cultivated land."
"Say does not appear to me to have consistently adhered to the obvious principle, which I have quoted from his able work"
"In the other English colonies, indeed, the right of primogeniture takes place, as in the law of England:"
"The company had been suspected of restraining the trade and of establishing some sort of improper monopoly."
"To each set of circumstances and expectations there will correspond an appropriate rate of interest, and there will never be any question of anyone changing his usual holdings of cash."
"Silver would appear to measure the value of gold, and gold would not appear to measure the value of silver."
"the proportion which the circulating money may bear to the whole value of the annual produce, as but a part, and frequently but a small part, of that produce, is ever destined for the maintenance of industry, it must always bear a very considerable proportion to that part."
"First, All those manufactures of which any part is commonly exported to other European countries without a bounty, could be very little affected by the freest importation of foreign goods."
"Happily these laws have been in operation during a period of progressive prosperity, when the funds for the maintenance of labour have regularly increased, and when an increase of population would be naturally called for."
"Being based on shifting and unreliable evidence, they are subject to sudden and violent changes."
"These buildings would not be erected, nor would raw produce be grown on such land, till the price at which it sold would not only pay for all the usual outgoings, but also for this additional one of the tax."
"By the th and th of Charles chap."
"When the annual productions of a country exceed its annual consumption, it is said to increase its capital; when its annual consumption at least is not replaced by its annual production, it is said to diminish its capital."
"What would this involve for a society which finds itself so well equipped with capital that its marginal efficiency is zero and would be negative with any additional investment; yet possessing a monetary system, such that money will 'keep' and involves negligible costs of storage and safe custody, with the result that in practice interest cannot be negative; and, in conditions of full employment, disposed to save?"
"With the exception of the period of laissez faire, no age has been free from these ideas."
"His wages properly express the value of this labour of inspection and direction."
"Mr Barretti was informed, that the weekly packet boat from Lisbon brings, one week with another, more than in gold to England."
"By sending his son abroad, a father delivers himself, at least for some time, from so disagreeable an object as that of a son unemployed, neglected, and going to ruin before his eyes."
"In this case too there would be a complicated measure producing no national result whatever."
"These reasons will lead, as a rule, to a greater proportion of income being saved as real income increases."
"If the seignorage had been only one percent."
"But English corn must be sold dearer in Scotland, the country to which it is brought, than in England, the country from which it comes; and in proportion to its quality it cannot be sold dearer in Scotland than the Scotch corn that comes to the same market in competition with it."
"whatever remains of the old fanatical spirit, either in the clergy or in the people of Scotland."
"The public expense, however, when defrayed in this manner, no doubt hinders, more or less, the further accumulation of new capital; but it does not necessarily occasion the destruction of any actually existing capital."
"What in the days of its prosperity had been saved from that annual produce, and employed in purchasing gold and silver, will contribute, for some little time, to support its consumption in adversity."
"There are those limitations which arise out of the monetary authority's own practices in limiting its willingness to deal to debts of a particular type."
"A greater annual produce would require a greater quantity of coin to circulate it; and a greater number of rich people would require a greater quantity of plate and other ornaments of silver."
"In this latter case the equality is brought about by the fact that the amount of money which people choose to hold is not independent of their incomes or of the prices of the things (primarily securities), the purchase of which is the natural alternative to holding money."
"If the improvement in making wine were of a very important description, it might become profitable for the two countries to exchange employments; for England to make all the wine, and Portugal all the cloth, consumed by them: but this could be effected only by a new distribution of the precious metals, which should raise the price of cloth in England, and lower it in Portugal."
"In Vasco de Gamo sailed from the port of Lisbon with a fleet of four ships, and, after a navigation of eleven months, arrived upon the coast of Indostan; and thus completed a course of discoveries which had been pursued with great steadiness, and with very little interruption, for near a century together."
"The Italian republics, the United Provinces of the Netherlands, are all in debt."
"falls, in short, upon every application of the human powers, in which ingenuity stands in need of wealth for its assistance.'"
"The rent and profit of those productions, therefore, which require either a greater original expense of improvement in order to fit the land for them, or a greater annual expense of cultivation, though often much superior to those of corn and pasture, yet when they do no more than compensate such extraordinary expense, are in reality regulated by the rent and profit of those common crops."
"In particular, it is an outstanding characteristic of the economic system in which we live that, whilst it is subject to severe fluctuations in respect of output and employment, it is not violently unstable."
"It is difficult to make sense of this theory as stated, because it is not clear whether the change in the value of money is or is not assumed to be foreseen."
"But if there had been a seignorage of four or five percent."
"All the ancient arts of Mexico and Peru have never furnished one single manufacture to Europe."
"Though the expense of the prodigal should be altogether in home made, and no part of it in foreign commodities, its effect upon the productive funds of the society would still be the same."
"When the German and Scythian nations overran the western provinces of the Roman empire, the confusions which followed so great"
"But, for the moment, the collapse in the marginal efficiency of capital may be so complete that no practicable reduction in the rate of interest will be enough."
"A Tartar chief, the increase of whose flocks and herds is sufficient to maintain a thousand men, cannot well employ that increase in any other way than in maintaining a thousand men."
"But it may considerably modify our attitude towards the second."
"A very heavy tax might discourage, too much, this attention and good management."
", which are necessarily inseparable from the land."
"A tax upon ground rents would not raise the rent of houses; it would fall altogether upon the owner of the ground rent, who acts always as a monopolist, and exacts the greatest rent which can be got for the use of his ground."
"Among the children of the same family there can be no indisputable difference but that of sex, and that of age."
"In tracing to its source the reason for the difference of opinion, let us, however, begin with the matters which are agreed."
"It was national advantage and relative strength at which they were admittedly aiming."
"But the same reasoning applies by easy adaptation if the poverty is due to inferior skill, technique or equipment."
"Versailles is an ornament and an honour to France, Stowe and Wilton to England."
"There are also other factors, over and above the operation of the general rule Just mentioned, which may operate to modify the marginal propensity to consume, and hence the multiplier; and these other factors seem likely, as a rule, to accentuate the tendency of the general rule rather than to offset jt."
"Credits of this kind are, I believe, commonly granted by banks and bankers in all different parts of the world."
"Thus a rise in the money rate of interest retards the output of all the objects of which the production is elastic without being capable of stimulating the output of money (the production of which is, by hypothesis, perfectly inelastic)."
"All sort of garden stuff, too, has become cheaper."
"The price of that labour may indeed make a part of it; as the workmen so employed may place the whole value of their wages in their stock reserved for immediate consumption."
"The cultivation of mulberry trees, and the breeding of silk worms, seem not to have been common in the northern parts of Italy before the sixteenth century."
"and in some of those of the East Indies, tea, coffee, china ware, spiceries of all kinds, several sorts of piece goods, etc."
"Saving, in fact, is a mere residual."
"If the profits of all trades were taxed, excepting the profits of the farmer, all goods would rise in money value, excepting raw produce."
"there should be annually received. ."
"In ordinary and quiet times, he can find no difficulty in getting one to buy at the market price, which generally corresponds with the price at which he can sell the coin or bullion it entitles him to take out of the bank."
"Even then it was, probably, in a better condition than it had been at the Norman conquest: and at the Norman conquest, than during the confusion of the Saxon heptarchy."
"If indeed the quantity of this debased silver coin had been enormously great, or if the mint had issued such debased pieces, it might have been the interest of debtors to pay in this debased money; but its quantity was limited and it sustained its value, and therefore gold was in practice the real standard of currency."
"To make and maintain the high roads, a servitude which still subsists, I believe, everywhere, though with different degrees of oppression in different countries, was not the only one."
"Long rose to power with popular slogans that advocated Share our Wealth and Every Man a King."
"It is usually agreed that casinos should, in the public interest, be inaccessible and expensive."
"But as he could not afford to employ the latter for less than the ordinary profits of farming stock, so he could as little afford to employ the former for less than the ordinary profits of mercantile stock."
"Whilst if the rate of interest falls below zero (assuming this to be technically possible), the opposite is the case."
"Say instances the tax on salt in France, previous to the revolution; which, he says, diminished the production of salt by one half."
"In countries where the public revenues are in farm, the farmers are generally the most opulent people."
"When the materials of lodging are so superabundant, the part made use of is worth only the labour and expense of fitting it for that use."
"It neither favours the great, nor oppresses the smaller dealer."
"There are no circumstances under which taxation does not abridge the enjoyments of those on whom the taxes ultimately fall, and no means by which those enjoyments can again be extended, but the accumulation of new revenue."
"The rent of a very moderate landed estate might be fully sufficient for defraying all the other necessary expenses of government."
"It is an advantage of the concepts of user cost and supplementary cost that they are as applicable to working and liquid capital as to fixed capital."
"The preceding analysis may appear to be in conformity with the view of those who hold that overinvestment is the characteristic of the boom, that the avoidance of this over investment is the only possible remedy for the ensuing slump, and that, whilst for the reasons given above the slump cannot be prevented by a low rate of interest, nevertheless the boom can be avoided by a high rate of interest."
"But no guidance is given as to how this item is to be calculated or as to its importance."
"it are little respected."
"The quantity of their coin will increase from necessity; the quantity of their plate from vanity and ostentation, or from the same reason that the quantity of fine statues, pictures, and of every other luxury and curiosity, is likely to increase among them."
"In Bengal, the Ganges, and several other great rivers, form a great number of navigable canals, in the same manner as the Nile does in Egypt"
"The seventh and last bounty of this kind was that granted by the th Geo. chap."
"This daily or weekly recompence, however, seems to have been considered as the whole of it, by many writers who have collected the prices of labour and provisions in ancient times, and who have taken pleasure in representing both as wonderfully low."
"About that age, or soon after, they come to be employed in very different occupations."
"In country villas, in the neighbourhood of some great town, it is sometimes a good deal higher, and the peculiar conveniency, or beauty of situation, is there frequently very highly paid for."
"For in earlier social organisation where long term bonds in the modern sense were non existent, the competition of a high interest rate on mortgages may well have had the same effect in retarding the growth of wealth from current investment in newly produced capital assets, as high interest rates on long term debts have had in more recent times."
"If the current rate of interest is positive for debts of every maturity, it must always be more advantageous to purchase a debt than to hold cash as a store of wealth."
"In that rude state of society, in which there is no division of labour, in which exchanges are seldom made, and in which every man provides every thing for himself, it is not necessary that any stock should be accumulated, or stored up before hand, in order to carry on the business of the society."
"The country gentlemen, who then composed a still greater proportion of the legislature than they do at present, had felt that the money price of corn was falling."
"If the computed exchange with France, therefore, was not more than two or three percent."
"The landlord could not raise his rent, because he would leave unaltered the difference between the produce obtained from the least productive land in cultivation, and that obtained from land of every other quality."
"In the one case, no greater proportion of the annual labour of the country is devoted to the support of the labourers, in the other case, a larger portion is so devoted."
"But the expense both of preparing this military force in time of peace, and of employing it in time of war, is very different in the different states of society, in the different periods of improvement."
"The plans and projects of the employers of stock regulate and direct all the most important operation of labour, and profit is the end proposed by all those plans and projects."
"If he raised the rate of his profit in proportion to the tax, the whole tax, though it might be advanced by him, would be finally paid by one or other of two different sets of people, according to the different ways in which he might employ the stock of which he had the management."
"The capital of the landlord, on the contrary, which is fixed in the improvement of his land, seems to be as well secured as the nature of human affairs can admit of."
"that in calculating the own rate of interest we must allow for both."
"Their pay is less than that of common labourers, and, in actual service, their fatigues are much greater."
"We have, indeed, to adjust for the creation and discharge of debts (including changes in the quantity of credit or money); but since for the community as a whole the increase or decrease of the aggregate creditor position is always exactly equal to the increase or decrease of the aggregate debtor position, this complication also cancels out when we are dealing with aggregate investment."
"It is true that the least productive mines, those which paid no rent, could no longer be worked, as they could not afford the general rate of profits till the relative value of gold rose, by a sum equal to the tax."
"We can, even in this case, seldom determine more than what are the most usual wages."
"The finances of France seem, in their present state, to admit of three very obvious reformations."
"The government of towns corporate was altogether in the hands of traders and artificers, and it was the manifest interest of every particular class of them, to prevent the market from being overstocked, as they commonly express it, with their own particular species of industry; which is in reality to keep it always understocked."
"The rise of profit operates like compound interest."
"He generally, indeed, neither intends to promote the public interest, nor knows how much he is promoting it."
"Those whom the law could not protect, and who were not strong enough to defend themselves, were obliged either to have recourse to the protection of some great lord, and in order to obtain it, to become either his slaves or vassals; or to enter into a league of mutual defence for the common protection of one another."
"This calls for two observations, the first of which relates to the actual attitude of workers towards real wages and money wages respectively and is not theoretically fundamental, but the second of which is fundamental."
"For although the struggle for money wages is, as we have pointed out above, essentially a struggle to maintain a high relative wage, this struggle is likely, as employment increases, to be intensified in each individual case both because the bargaining position of the worker is improved and because the diminished marginal utility of his wage and his improved financial margin make him readier to run risks."
"In some parts of Lancashire, it is pretended, I have been told, that bread of oatmeal is a heartier food for labouring people than wheaten bread, and I have frequently heard the same doctrine held in Scotland."
"Even though that demand, therefore, should continue always the same, their market price will be liable to great fluctuations, will sometimes fall a good deal below, and sometimes rise a good deal above, their natural price."
"Marshall,for example, although his references to mercantilism are not altogether unsympathetic, had no regard for their central theory as such and does not even mention those elements of truth in their contentions which I shall examine below."
"In those days, the administration of justice not only afforded a certain revenue to the sovereign, but, to procure this revenue, seems to have been one of the principal advantages which he proposed to obtain by the administration of justice."
"Not that they necessarily would be, even in this case, on a scale equal to the amount of resources released; since the desired interval of delay might require a method of production so inconveniently 'roundabout' as to have an efficiency well below the current rate of interest, with the result that the favourable effect on employment of the forward order for consumption would eventuate not at once"
"The bounty paid for this amounted to."
"The capital of one might consist for example of."
"But this, I have to point out, should not have led us to overlook the fact that the demand arising out of the consumption and investment of one individual is the source of the incomes of other individuals, so that incomes in general are not independent, quite the contrary, of the disposition of individuals to spend and invest; and since in turn the readiness of individuals to spend and invest depends on their incomes, a relationship is set up between aggregate savings and aggregate investment which can be very easily shown, beyond any possibility of reasonable dispute, to be one of exact and necessary equality."
"be employed on the same land, with a return of seventy five quarters, rent will then be paid for the second."
"The same cause which would lower the price of one from."
"it is evident, that if out of these equal values, the farmer is at one time obliged to pay wages regulated by the price of wheat at."
"Of Mr. Malthus's Essay on Population, I am happy in the opportunity here afforded me of expressing my admiration."
"But whatever inconveniency might arise to the maltster from being obliged to advance a heavier tax, it could easily be remedied, by granting him a few months longer credit than is at present commonly given to the brewer."
", supposing percent."
"Fluctuations may start briskly but seem to wear themselves out before they have proceeded to great extremes, and an intermediate situation which is neither desperate nor satisfactory is our normal lot."
"Thus, in the simplest case, where everyone is similar and similarly placed, a change in circumstances or expectations will not be capable of causing any displacement of money whatever;<U+F8E7>it will simply change the rate of interest in whatever degree is necessary to offset the desire of each individual, felt at the previous rate, to change his holding of cash in response to the new circumstances or expectations; and, since everyone will change his ideas as to the rate which would induce him to alter his holdings of cash in the same degree, no transactions will result."
"About the prosperity of the great empire, in the government of which that vote gives him a share, he seldom cares at all."
"The pecuniary advantages which they receive from one another are mutual and equal, and such a tenant will expose neither his life nor his fortune in the service of the proprietor."
"Best of all that we should know the future."
"In the first case riches are estimated by the amount of value: in the second, they are estimated by the abundance of commodities contributing to human enjoyments."
"It is evident from the above that the level of employment at any time depends, in a sense, not merely on the existing state of expectation but on the states of expectation which have existed over a certain past period."
"We cannot estimate it from year to year by the quantities of corn."
"This led him to the famous prescription of 'stamped' money, with which his name is chiefly associated and which has received the blessing of Professor Irving Fisher."
"But, until a satisfactory system of units has been adopted, its precise definition is an impossible task."
"By pursuing his own interest, he frequently promotes that of the society more effectually than when he really intends to promote it."
"The risk of one or other of these limitations becoming operative is increased in the case of a country which is large and internationally important by the fact that, in conditions where the current output of the precious metals from the mines is on a relatively small scale, an influx of money into one country means an effiux from another; so that the adverse effects of rising costs and falling rates of interest at home may be accentuated (if the mercantilist policy is pushed too far) by falling costs and rising rates of interest abroad."
"Though it has no intrinsic value, yet, by limiting its quantity, its value in exchange is as great as an equal denomination of coin, or of bullion in that coin."
"The greater part, too, of the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, are altogether new markets."
"Though both were extremely populous, yet, in years of moderate plenty, they were both able to export great quantities of grain to their neighbours."
"But Epicurus bequeathed his gardens to his own school."
"It is by many people supposed to have done more."
"The cheapness and plenty of good land encourage improvement, and enable the proprietor to pay those high wages."
"Account has also to be taken of all kinds of risks, such as the prospect of not living to enjoy the future goods or of confiscatory taxation."
"In France, Scotland, and many other parts of Europe, it frequently means no more than a single storey."
"But a coward, a man incapable either of defending or of revenging himself, evidently wants one of the most essential parts of the character of a man."
"By extorting from the legislature bounties upon the exportation of their own linen, high duties upon the importation of all foreign linen, and a total prohibition of the home consumption of some sorts of French linen, they endeavour to sell their own goods as dear as possible."
"possessions which are everywhere considered as causes of expense, not as sources of revenue, seem to be the only lands which, in a great and civilized monarchy, ought to belong to the crown."
"The prodigal perverts it in this manner: By not confining his expense within his income, he encroaches upon his capital."
"In the third and fourth chapters, I have endeavoured to examine the manner in which it operates in both these situations."
"To hurt, in any degree, the interest of any one order of citizens, for no other purpose but to promote that of some other, is evidently contrary to that justice and equality of treatment which the sovereign owes to all the different orders of his subjects."
"Certainly, it is worth while for me to make the attempt"
"They have not only never been incorporated, but the incorporation spirit never has prevailed among them."
"While he remains in a country village, his conduct may be attended to, and he may be obliged to attend to it himself."
"The capital of a country consists of its commodities, and as these would be the same as before, reproduction would go on at the same rate."
"But though North America is not yet so rich as England, it is much more thriving, and advancing with much greater rapidity to the further acquisition of riches."
"The factor cost is, of course, the same thing, looked at from the point of view of the entrepreneur, as what the factors of production regard as their income."
"To prevent the stock jobbing tricks which those opposite interests might sometimes occasion, the bank has of late years come to the resolution, to sell at all times bank money for currency at five percent."
"In such a work as this, however, it may sometimes be of use to compare the different real values of a particular commodity at different times and places, or the different degrees of power over the labour of other people which it may, upon different occasions, have given to those who possessed it."
"The monopoly, indeed, raises the rate of mercantile profit and thereby augments somewhat the gain of our merchants."
"Though the quality was much better, the greater part of what is brought to market could not, I apprehend, in the present circumstances of the country, be disposed of at a much better price; and the present price, it is probable, would not pay the expense of the land and labour necessary for producing a much better quality."
"For what matters is the difference between the liquidity premium and the carrying costs; and in the case of most commodities, other than such assets as gold and silver and bank notes, the carrying costs are at least as high as the liquidity premium ordinarily attaching to the standard in which contracts and wages are fixed, so that, even if the liquidity premium now attaching to (e.g.) sterling money were to be transferred to(e.g.)"
"The lands cultivated by the farmer must, in the same manner, with only equal good conduct, be improved more slowly than those cultivated by the proprietor, on account of the large share of the produce which is consumed in the rent, and which, had the farmer been proprietor, he might have employed in the further improvement of the land."
"The dangers to which a false coiner is everywhere exposed, if he lives in the country of which he counterfeits the coin, and to which his agents or correspondents are exposed, if he lives in a foreign country, are by far too great to be incurred for the sake of a profit of six or seven percent."
"For, although a reduction in the existing money wage would lead to a withdrawal of labour, it does not follow that a fall in the value of the existing money wage in terms of wage goods would do so, if it were due to a rise in the price of the latter."
"will cause a fall in the price of consumers' goods, and, quite possibly, a greater fall than in the price of producers' goods; hence, according to the above reasoning, it means a reduction in the rate of interest which will stimulate investment."
"By the money price of goods, it is to be observed, I understand always the quantity of pure gold or silver for which they are sold, without any regard to the denomination of the coin."
"First, the levying of it may require a great number of officers, whose salaries may eat up the greater part of the produce of the tax, and whose perquisites may impose another additional tax upon the people."
"on account of the confusions and disorders which this more popular mode of election had almost everywhere occasioned."
"They are to be bought for a certain price, like all other commodities; and as they are the price of all other commodities, so all other commodities are the price of those metals."
"This, however, could scarce, perhaps, be done, consistently with the principles of the British constitution, without admitting into the British parliament, or, if you will, into the states general of the British empire, a fair and equal representation of all those different provinces; that of each province bearing the same proportion to the produce of its taxes, as the representation of Great Britain might bear to the produce of the taxes levied upon Great Britain."
"But the arguments by which they supported those different systems, far from being always demonstrations, were frequently at best but very slender probabilities, and sometimes mere sophisms, which had no other foundation but the inaccuracy and ambiguity of common language."
"Nothing is more common, than to see hats or malt rise when taxed; they rise because the requisite supply would not be afforded if they did not rise:"
"It has sometimes been argued, contrary to the opinion of business men, that organised schemes for scrapping redundant plant cannot have the desired effect of raising prices unless they apply to the whole of the redundant plant."
"This mode of taxation, therefore, it seems evident, could never, without the most grievous oppression, produce a revenue nearly equal to what is derived from the present mode without any oppression."
"The Manchester School and Marxism both derive ultimately from Ricardo,<U+F8E7>a conclusion which is only superficially surprising."
"For supplying the home market, therefore, the importance of the inland trade must be to that of the importation trade as five hundred and seventy to one."
"When this act was made, the Dutch were, what they still are, the great carriers of Europe; and by this regulation they were entirely excluded from being the carriers to Great Britain, or from importing to us the goods of any other European country."
"But the factions of the Greeks were almost always violent and sanguinary; whereas, till the time of the Gracchi, no blood had ever been shed in any Roman faction; and from the time of the Gracchi, the Roman republic may be considered as in reality dissolved."
"The real exchange, therefore, may even at that time have been in favour of England, notwithstanding the computed exchange was so much against it; a smaller number or ounces of pure silver, actually paid in England, may have purchased a bill for a greater number of ounces of pure silver to be paid in Holland, and the man who was supposed to give, may in reality have got the premium."
"In assuming that the wage bargain determines the real wage the classical school have slipt in an illicit assumption."
"We have already seen that a tax on necessaries will raise their prices, and will be followed by a rise of wages."
"As an acre of land, therefore, will produce a much smaller quantity of the one species of food than of the other, the inferiority of the quantity must be compensated by the superiority of the price."
"Their necessary expense is much smaller."
"But the manner in which this monopoly has been exercised in different nations, has been very different."
"The produce of every part of the country must be proportioned to the consumption of the neighbourhood."
"By a somewhat drastic simplification the marginal efficiency of capital is taken as measured by the ratio of the supply price of new consumers' goods to the supply price of new producers' goods."
"The trade of insurance, therefore, may be carried on successfully by a joint stock company, without any exclusive privilege."
"One will therefore have to pay."
"The British empire would thus afford, within itself, an immense internal market for every part of the produce of all its different provinces."
"I am no longer confident that there was in fact so much affinity as I then supposed."
"The quantity of gold and silver imported at both Cadiz and Lisbon (including not only what comes under register, but what may be supposed to be smuggled) amounts, according to the best accounts, to about six millions sterling a year."
"She sometimes, at least, from an affected concern for the peace of the parish, delays the settlement till this concurrence can be procured."
"The second event was the bounty upon the exportation of corn, granted in."
"What those lectures shall be, must still depend upon the diligence of the teacher; and that diligence is likely to be proportioned to the motives which he has for exerting it."
"If the comprehensive mind of Adam Smith had been directed to this fact, he would not have maintained that rent forms one of the component parts of the price of raw produce; for price is everywhere regulated by the return obtained by this last portion of capital, for which no rent whatever is paid."
"It can always purchase or command a greater or smaller quantity of labour, and somebody can always be found who is willing to do something in order to obtain it."
"Thus, then, with every improvement of society, with every increase in its capital, the market wages of labour will rise; but the permanence of their rise will depend on the question, whether the natural price of wages has also risen; and this again will depend on the rise in the natural price of those necessaries, on which the wages of labour are expended."
"If then the state were to issue the paper money of the country, although it should never discount a bill, or lend one shilling to the public, there would be no alteration in the amount of trade; for we should have the same quantity of raw materials, of machinery, food, and ships; and it is probable too, that the same amount of money might be lent, not at percent."
"The object of our analysis is, not to provide a machine, or method of blind manipulation, which will furnish an infallible answer, but to provide ourselves with an organised and orderly method of thinking out particular problems; and, after we have reached a provisional conclusion by isolating the complicating factors one by one, we then have to go back on ourselves and allow, as well as we can, for the probable interactions of the factors amongst themselves."
"But it is surely much easier to change the direction of industry from one sort of labour to another, than to turn idleness and dissipation to any."
"Suppose that by importation, the same quantity of corn can be obtained for commodities which cost."
"Monopolies of the second kind may sometimes attract stock towards the particular trade in which they are established, and sometimes repel it from that trade, according to different circumstances."
"The landlord gains both ways; by the increase of the produce, and by the diminution of the labour which must be maintained out of it."
"The following observations may serve to shew the impropriety of this representation:"
"They are the projects, therefore, to which, of all others, a prudent lawgiver, who desired to increase the capital of his nation, would least choose to give any extraordinary encouragement, or to turn towards them a greater share of that capital than what would go to them of its own accord."
"The revenue laws, therefore, become gradually more and more severe."
"In England, however, notwithstanding the flourishing state of its woollen manufacture, the price of English wool has fallen very considerably since the time of Edward"
"There are a few exceptions, but they are such as can give no interruption to any important branch of inland commerce of the country."
"A capital may be employed in four different ways; either, first, in procuring the rude produce annually required for the use and consumption of the society; or, secondly, in manufacturing and preparing that rude produce for immediate use and consumption; or, thirdly in transporting either the rude or manufactured produce from the places where they abound to those where they are wanted; or, lastly, in dividing particular portions of either into such small parcels as suit the occasional demands of those who want them."
"It is more natural, therefore, to estimate its exchangeable value by the quantity of some other commodity, than by that of the labour which it can produce."
", thereby displacing a million of coin, the country would be charged with a continual tax of."
"There are many little manufacturing towns in Great Britain, of which the inhabitants have not capital sufficient to transport the produce of their own industry to those distant markets where there is demand and consumption for it."
"But the greater part of men are not very frequently under the influence of those passions; and the very worst men are so only occasionally."
"I suspect that this factor may have played a significant part in aggravating the degree of the recent slump in the United States."
"In this diagram the amount of investment (or saving)"
"k<U+2206>Iw, where /k is equal to the marginal propensity to consume."
"Have they contributed to encourage the diligence, and to improve the abilities, of the teachers?"
"First, The policy of Europe occasions a very important inequality in the whole of the advantages and disadvantages of the different employments of labour and stock, by restraining the competition in some employments to a smaller number than might otherwise be disposed to enter into them."
"Moreover, as we shall see in chapter where we shall consider long term expectations in more detail, they are liable to sudden revision."
"Those two cities, however, at present carry on a very considerable commerce with each other, and by mutually affording a market, give a good deal of encouragement to each other's industry."
"All such incorporations were anciently called universities, which, indeed, is the proper Latin name for any incorporation whatever."
"The sea of Tartary is the frozen ocean, which admits of no navigation; and though some of the greatest rivers in the world run through that country, they are at too great a distance from one another to carry commerce and communication through the greater part of it."
"In the same class must be ranked, some both of the gravest and most important, and some of the most frivolous professions; churchmen, lawyers, physicians, men of letters of all kinds; players, buffoons, musicians, opera singers, opera dancers, etc."
"In Holland, where the market rate of interest does not exceed three percent."
"There are several different sorts of paper money; but the circulating notes of banks and bankers are the species which is best known, and which seems best adapted for this purpose."
"It is no new thing, however, to ascribe the evils of unemployment to the insufficiency of the other constituent, namely, the insufficiency of the propensity to consume."
"Such was the Greek empire as long as it subsisted, and that of the Saracens during the reigns of the Abassides."
"The common law of England, indeed, is said to abhor perpetuities, and they are accordingly more restricted there than in any other European monarchy; though even England is not altogether without them."
"For, in the first place, the increase of employment will tend, owing to the effect of diminishing returns in the short period, to increase the proportion of aggregate income which accrues to the entrepreneurs, whose individual marginal propensity to consume is probably less than the average for the community as a whole."
"The reader will find at the end of this chapter all the prices of wheat which have been collected by Fleetwood, from to both inclusive, reduced to the money of the present times, and digested, according to the order of time, into seven divisions of twelve years each."
"the wages of the weavers: and the profits must always bear some proportion to the capital."
"It may therefore be uncertain, whether, to the general market of Europe, the whole mass of American gold comes at a price nearer to the lowest for which it is possible to bring it thither, than the whole mass of American silver."
"And, first, of those which are necessary for facilitating Commerce in general."
"In manufactures, the same number of hands, assisted with the best machinery, will work up a much greater quantity of goods than with more imperfect instruments of trade."
"therefore, gum senega was allowed to be imported (contrary to the general dispositions of the act of navigation) from any part of Europe."
"It would undoubtedly be advantageous to the capitalists of England, and to the consumers in both countries, that under such circumstances, the wine and the cloth should both be made in Portugal, and therefore that the capital and labour of England employed in making cloth, should be removed to Portugal for that purpose."
"The importation of commodities of the second kind might be so managed too, it was supposed, as to interfere, not with the sale of those of the same kind which were produced at home, but with that of those which were imported from foreign countries; because, by means of proper duties, they might be rendered always somewhat dearer than the former, and yet a good deal cheaper than the latter."
"Let us suppose (as a mere hypothesis at this stage of the argument) that there is some asset (e.g. money) of which the rate of interest is fixed (or declines more slowly as output increases than does any other commodity's rate of interest); how is the position adjusted?"
"The policy of some nations has given extraordinary encouragement to the industry of the country; that of others to the industry of towns."
"seems to have established a new system with regard to the corn laws, in many respects better than the ancient one, but in one or two respects perhaps not quite so good."
"Rightly regarded this is a banale conclusion."
"That the loss sustained, through a disadvantageous distribution of labour in two countries, may be beneficial to one of them, while the other is made to suffer more than the loss actually belonging to such a distribution, has been stated by Adam Smith himself; which, if true, will at once prove that a measure, which may be greatly hurtful to a colony, may be partially beneficial to the mother country."
"In all such disputes, the masters can hold out much longer."
"Our merchant exporters, on the contrary, make entry of more than they export; sometimes out of vanity, and to pass for great dealers in goods which pay no duty gain a bounty back."
"Nothing is more common than to hear of the advantages which the land possesses over every other source of useful produce, on account of the surplus which it yields in the form of rent."
"is, therefore, subject to the condition that cannot exceed the value which reduces the real wage to equality with the marginal disutility of labour."
"Say was implicitly assuming that the economic system was always operating up to its full capacity, so that a new activity was always in substitution for, and never in addition to, some other activity."
"Thus, if the price of corn is in England."
"It might be of importance, however, that the abatement of the tax should encourage him to cultivate to a certain extent only."
"Adam Smith, having stamped corn and labour as an universal measure of value, would naturally estimate the comparative value of gold by the quantity of those two objects for which it would exchange: and, accordingly, when he speaks of the comparative value of gold in two countries, I understand him to mean its value estimated in corn and labour."
"Those agricultural systems, on the contrary, really, and in the end, discourage their own favourite species of industry."
"At the same time we must recognise that only experience can show how far the common will, embodied in the policy of the State, ought to be directed to increasing and supplementing the inducement to invest; and how far it is safe to stimulate the average propensity to consume, without foregoing our aim of depriving capital of its scarcity value within one or two generations."
"But when, by the improvements in the productive powers of manufacturing art and industry, the expense of any one dress comes to be very moderate, the variety will naturally be very great."
"or one twentieth part of the value; and whatever may be his proportion, it would naturally, too, belong to the proprietor of the mine, if tin was duty free."
"It would seem (following Mr Kahn) that the following are likely in a modern community to be the factors which it is most important not to overlook (though the first two will not be fully intelligible until after Book has been reached): (i)"
"When we are in want of necessaries, we must part with all superfluities, of which the value, as it rises in times of opulence and prosperity, so it sinks in times of poverty and distress."
"But the temporal power of the clergy, the absolute command which they had once had over the great body of the people was very much decayed."
"The raising of the denomination of the coin has been the most usual expedient by which a real public bankruptcy has been disguised under the appearance of a pretended payment."
"They represented, secondly, that this prohibition could not hinder the exportation of gold and silver, which, on account of the smallness of their bulk in proportion to their value, could easily be smuggled abroad."
"But it had soon been found, that to restrain the exportation of wheat till the price was so very low, was, in reality, to prohibit it altogether."
"I feel sure that the demand for capital is strictly limited in the sense that it would not be difficult to increase the stock of capital up to a point where its marginal efficiency had fallen to a very low figure."
"During a long period in the progress of improvement, the quantity of these is continually diminishing, while, at the same time, the demand for them is continually increasing."
"The capital of the merchant exchanges the surplus produce of one place for that of another, and thus encourages the industry, and increases the enjoyments of both."
"Indeed it is strange that so little attempt should have been made to prove or to refute it."
"In proportion as the value of this produce is great or small, so will likewise be the profits of the employer."
"The price of coals in Westmoreland or Shropshire can have little effect on their price at Newcastle; and their price in the Lionnois can have none at all."
"Abbot de Bazinghen, Conseiller Commissaire en la Cour des Monnoies Paris."
"That industry, therefore, which aims at something more than necessary subsistence, was established in cities long before it was commonly practised by the occupiers of land in the country."
"The laws concerning corn may everywhere be compared to the laws concerning religion."
"The high profits of British stock, however, may contribute towards raising the price of British manufactures, in many cases, as much, and in some perhaps more, than the high wages of British labour."
"In order to support the circulation of those notes, which were continually returning upon it as fast as they were issued, it had been constantly in the practice of drawing bills of exchange upon London, of which the number and value were continually increasing, and, when it stopt, amounted to upwards of six hundred thousand pounds."
"It is common to all men, and to be found in no other race of animals, which seem to know neither this nor any other species of contracts."
"The moral of this observation seems to be, that certificates ought always to be required by the parish where any poor man comes to reside, and that they ought very seldom to be granted by that which he purposes to leave. '"
"But upon upwards of six hundred thousand pounds, for which it was continually drawing bills of exchange upon London, it was paying, in the way of interest and commission, upwards of eight percent."
"They are advantageous to the town by breaking down the monopoly of the country in its neighbourhood."
"It seems to have risen somewhat in the course of the present century, and it had probably begun to do so, even some time before the end of the last."
"First, and mainly, that quality of the earth, by which it can be made to yield a greater portion of the necessaries of life than is required for the maintenance of the persons employed on the land."
"In spite of the cruel destruction of the natives which followed the conquest, these two great empires are probably more populous now than they ever were before; and the people are surely very different; for we must acknowledge, I apprehend, that the Spanish creoles are in many respects superior to the ancient Indians."
"It has been my endeavour to shew in this work, that a fall of wages would have no other effect than to raise profits."
"As it would very much facilitate the operations of that army against a foreign invader; so it would obstruct them as much, if unfortunately they should ever be directed against the constitution of the state."
"They are unwilling, for fear of offending the people, who, by so great and so sudden an increase of taxes, would soon be disgusted with the war; and they are unable, from not well knowing what taxes would be sufficient to produce the revenue wanted."
"Or they may even argue that profits will necessarily go up because wages have gone down."
"His way of living, as well as that of Hippias and Protagoras, two other eminent teachers of those times, is represented by Plato as splendid, even to ostentation."
"His work is not always easier, but it is much cleanlier."
"The causal significance of net income lies in the psychological influence of the magnitude of on the amount of current consumption, since net income is what we suppose the ordinary man to reckon his available income to be when he is deciding how much to spend on current consumption."
"They must necessarily fall, until the declining capacity to save has sufficiently offset the stimulus to save given by the higher rate of interest."
"A tax on wine is paid by the consumer of wine."
"In England, for example, when, by the land tax, every other sort of revenue was supposed to be assessed at four shillings in the pound, it was very popular to lay a real tax of five shillings and sixpence in the pound upon the salaries of offices which exceeded a hundred pounds a year; the pensions of the younger branches of the royal family, the pay of the officers of the army and navy, and a few others less obnoxious to envy, excepted."
"Five shillings and sevenpence, however, seems to have been the most common price."
"The explanation of this is undoubtedly to be found in the fact that this relationship of equality between saving and investment, which necessarily holds good for the system as a whole, does not hold good at all for a particular individual."
"By opening a new and inexhaustible market to all the commodities of Europe, it gave occasion to new divisions of labour and improvements of art, which in the narrow circle of the ancient commerce could never have taken place, for want of a market to take off the greater part of their produce."
"Digression concerning the Variations in the value of Silver during the Course of the Four last Centuries."
"It appears to me, that the difficulty may be very simply solved, by referring this different state of the value of the guinea at the two periods mentioned, to the different quantities of debased silver currency in circulation."
"Thus it is a mistake to put all the emphasis on net income, which is only relevant to decisions concerning consumption, and is, moreover, only separated from various other factors affecting consumption by a narrow line; and to overlook (as has been usual)"
"If this indeed were true, if the reward of the labourer were always in proportion to what he produced, the quantity of labour bestowed on a commodity, and the quantity of labour which that commodity would purchase, would be equal, and either might accurately measure the variations of other things: but they are not equal; the first is under many circumstances an invariable standard, indicating correctly the variations of other things; the latter is subject to as many fluctuations as the commodities compared with it."
"The classical school reconcile this phenomenon with their second postulate by arguing that, while the demand for labour at the existing money wage may be satisfied before everyone willing to work at this wage is employed, this situation is due to an open or tacit agreement amongst workers not to work for less, and that if labour as a whole would agree to a reduction of money wages more employment would be forthcoming."
"It is impossible to think clearly on the subject without this theory as a part of one's apparatus of thought."
"All that I mean is, that the one sort of expense, as it always occasions some accumulation of valuable commodities, as it is more favourable to private frugality, and, consequently, to the increase of the public capital, and as it maintains productive rather than unproductive hands, conduces more than the other to the growth of public opulence."
"But they remain independent in the sense that their values cannot be inferred from one another."
"of the supposed rent."
"If, that is to say, Ricardo had argued that it would make no permanent alteration to the rate of interest whether the quantity of money was fixed by the monetary authority at ten millions or at a hundred millions, his conclusion would hold."
"The French, in their turn, have, I believe, treated our goods and manufactures just as hardly; though I am not so well acquainted with the particular hardships which they have imposed upon them."
"It tells us that, when there is an increment of aggregate investment, income will increase by an amount which is times the increment of investment."
"The price is eight shillings the quarter of wheat."
"To put the point concretely, I see no reason to suppose that the existing system seriously misemploys the factors of production which are in use."
"In consequence of any change, however, in this regulated proportion, this distinction becomes, or at least seems to become, something more than nominal again."
"The second book, therefore, treats of the nature of capital stock, of the manner in which it is gradually accumulated, and of the different quantities of labour which it puts into motion, according to the different ways in which it is employed."
"To prevent its becoming so would require the continual and painful attention of government to all the variations in the state and produce of every different farm in the country."
"Folly and injustice seem to have been the principles which presided over and directed the first project of establishing those colonies; the folly of hunting after gold and silver mines, and the injustice of coveting the possession of a country whose harmless natives, far from having ever injured the people of Europe, had received the first adventurers with every mark of kindness and hospitality."
"In the state of things which has happened to take place since the revolution, the constancy of the valuation has been advantageous to the landlord and hurtful to the sovereign."
"The stability of the bank of England is equal to that of the British government."
"If a tax were laid on rent, and no means of separating the remuneration now paid by the tenant to the landlord under the name of rent were adopted, the tax, as far as it regarded the rent on the buildings and other fixtures, would never fall for any length of time on the landlord, but on the consumer."
"Labour, it must always be remembered, and not any particular commodity, or set of commodities, is the real measure of the value both of silver and of all other commodities."
"This opinion of Mr. Buchanan of the effects of a tax on malt appears to me to be in direct contradiction to the opinion he has given of a similar tax, a tax on bread."
"of the Wealth of Nations, Mr. Buchanan observes, but the price of corn does not regulate the money price of all the other parts of the rude produce of land."
"The assaults of the opponents of this great work have only served to prove its strength; and I am persuaded that its just reputation will spread with the cultivation of that science of which it is so eminent an ornament."
"In countries where lands, improved and cultivated very highly, and yielding, at the time of sale, as great a rent as can easily be got from them, commonly sell at thirty years purchase; the unimproved, uncultivated, and low rented crown lands, might well be expected to sell at forty, fifty, or sixty years purchase."
"dearer than it had been during the sixteen years before."
"It was of importance to Columbus, however, that the countries which he had discovered, whatever they were, should be represented to the court of Spain as of very great consequence; and, in what constitutes the real riches of every country, the animal and vegetable productions of the soil, there was at that time nothing which could well justify such a representation of them."
"is the supposed difference between the good standard money of the state, and the clipt, worn, and diminished currency, poured into it from all the neighbouring states."
"Whilst it is for many purposes a very useful first approximation to assume that the rewards of all the factors entering into marginal prime cost change in the same proportion as the wage unit, it might be better, perhaps, to take a weighted average of the rewards of the factors entering into marginal primecost, and call this the cost unit."
"At this point, however, let us turn back and consider why such a thing as liquidity preference exists."
"what now seems to me to be the element of scientific truth in mercantilist doctrine."
"A rotation of this kind seems alone a sufficient security against any practices which cannot be avowed."
"Before the invention of the art of printing, a scholar and a beggar seem to have been terms very nearly synonymous."
"In the same way, the theoretical concessions which free trade economists have been ready to make in contemporary controversies, relating, for example, to the encouragement of infant industries or to the improvement of the terms of trade, are not concerned with the real substance of the mercantilist case."
"The farmer then, although he pays no part of his landlord's rent, that being always regulated by the price of produce, and invariably falling on the consumers, has however a very decided interest in keeping rent low, or rather in keeping the natural price of produce low."
"The borrower may use it either as a capital, or as a stock reserved for immediate consumption."
"From mines, too, is drawn what is necessary for maintaining and augmenting that part of it which consists in money."
"But the consumption of malt is in malt liquors; and a tax of eighteen shillings upon the quarter of malt could not well render those liquors dearer than the different taxes, amounting to twenty four or twenty five shillings, do at present."
"It is through confounding the ideas of value and wealth, or riches, that it has been asserted, that by diminishing the quantity of commodities, that is to say, of the necessaries, conveniences, and enjoyments of human life, riches may be increased."
"Whatever is either bought or sold for such paper, must necessarily be bought or sold as cheap as it could have been for gold and silver."
"required, which, when obtained, will not procure the same quantity of wine; because, whilst the diminution of money in England has lowered the natural price of goods there, the increase of money in France has raised the natural price of goods and wine in France."
"In consequence of those two calls, therefore, the bank capital amounted to."
"a proportion of what they owe."
"When once the recovery has been started, the manner in which it feeds on itself and cumulates is obvious."
"The strength of this motive in inducing a decision to hold a given aggregate of cash will chiefly depend on the amount of income and the normal length of the interval between its receipt and its disbursement."
"Thirdly, The mode of fishing, for which this tonnage bounty in the white herring fishery has been given (by busses or decked vessels from twenty to eighty tons burden, seems not so well adapted to the situation of Scotland, as to that of Holland, from the practice of which country it appears to have been borrowed."
"But illustrations of this kind merely indicate part of the action of the great causes which govern value."
"Although, however, money is subject to such perpetual variations, and consequently the prices of the commodities which are common to most countries, are also subject to considerable difference, yet no effect will be produced on the rate of profits, either from the influx or efflux of money."
"Let there be more difficulty in England in producing cloth, or in Portugal in producing wine, or let there be more facility in England in producing wine, or in Portugal in producing cloth, and the trade must immediately cease."
"and would not the labourer thus obtain his usual portion?"
"In the book of rates, according to which the old subsidy was levied, beaver skins were estimated at six shillings and eight pence a piece; and the different subsidies and imposts which, before the year had been laid upon their importation, amounted to one fifth part of the rate, or to sixteen pence upon each skin; all of which, except half the old subsidy, amounting only to twopence, was drawn back upon exportation."
"The following instance, however, of something of the same kind, is to be found in the capital of a very rich one."
"All of them taken together, they make a great internal market for the produce of one another."
"With respect to the second objection, that there would be a considerable interval between the rise of the price of corn and the rise of wages, during which much distress would be experienced by the lower classes, I answer, that under different circumstances, wages follow the price of raw produce with very different degrees of celerity;"
"It is by the profuse expenditure of Government, and of individuals, and by loans, that a country is impoverished; every measure therefore which is calculated to promote public and private oeconomy will relieve the public distress; but it is error and delusion, to suppose that a real national difficulty can be removed, by shifting it from the shoulders of one class of the community, who justly ought to bear it, to the shoulders of another class, who upon every principle of equity ought to bear no more than their share."
"They are said, likewise, to have been more abundant before the institution of those currencies."
"are equally probable, so that there remains a mean actuarial expectation based on equi probabilities."
"The garrisons at Gibraltar and Minorca, accordingly, have never been neglected."
"Whatever was the rate at which labour was commonly maintained in that country, this greater surplus could always maintain a greater quantity of it, and, consequently, enable the landlord to purchase or command a greater quantity of it."
"In time of war, they are all of them naturally disposed to muster themselves under his banner, rather than under that of any other person; and his birth and fortune thus naturally procure to him some sort of executive power."
", or a year, for sixteen years."
"The East India company, upon the redemption of their funds, and the expiration of their exclusive privilege, have a right, by act of parliament, to continue a corporation with a joint stock, and to trade in their corporate capacity to the East Indies, in common with the rest of their fellow subjects."
"From being at first, perhaps, rather imprudent than criminal, he at last too often becomes one of the hardiest and most determined violators of the laws of society."
"When such a person, therefore, carried his industry to a new parish, he was liable to be removed, how healthy and industrious soever, at the caprice of any churchwarden or overseer, unless he either rented a tenement of ten pounds a year, a thing impossible for one who has nothing but his labour to live by, or could give such security for the discharge of the parish as two justices of the peace should judge sufficient."
"The constancy and steadiness of the effect supposes a proportionable constancy and steadiness in the cause."
"Whatever were the causes which lowered the value of the capital, the same must necessarily have lowered that of the interest, and exactly in the same proportion."
"In by the same act which first gave the bounty of."
"preference<U+F8E7>and hence a rise in the rate of interest."
"Our graziers still continue subject to the old monopoly."
"If fiscal policy is used as a deliberate instrument for the more equal distribution of incomes, its effect in increasing the propensity to consume is, of course, all the greater."
"There is scarce a common trade, which does not afford some opportunities of applying to it the principles of geometry and mechanics, and which would not, therefore, gradually exercise and improve the common people in those principles, the necessary introduction to the most sublime, as well as to the most useful sciences."
"In speaking however of labour, as being the foundation of all value, and the relative quantity of labour as determining the relative value of commodities, I must not be supposed to be inattentive to the different qualities of labour, and the difficulty of comparing an hour's, or a day's labour, in one employment, with the same duration of labour in another."
"The most unfavourable contingency is that in which money wages are slowly sagging downwards and each reduction in wages serves to diminish confidence in the prospective maintenance of wages."
"In a great iron work, for example, the furnace for melting the ore, the forge, the slit mill, are instruments of trade which cannot be erected without a very great expense."
"This rise does not destroy the relation between cloth and hats; a hat was, and continues to be, worth one yard and a half of cloth."
"But their success in this more confined trade was not greater than in their former extensive one."
"The whole expense of the inferior is much greater titan that of the superior ranks."
"Tenpence may be reckoned its price in Edinburgh and its neighbourhood."
"A prudent man', Bentham continues, 'will not, in these circumstances, pick out the good projects from the bad, for he will not meddle with projects at all.'"
"As they are continually going from port to port, the monthly pay of those who sail from all the different ports of Great Britain, is more nearly upon a level than that of any other workmen in those different places; and the rate of the port to and from which the greatest number sail, that is, the port of London, regulates that of all the rest."
"As a military officer submits, without reluctance, to the authority of a superior by whom he has always been commanded, but cannot bear that his inferior should be set over his head; so men easily submit to a family to whom they and their ancestors have always submitted; but are fired with indignation when another family, in whom they had never acknowledged any such superiority, assumes adominion over them."
"When this superfluous paper was converted into gold and silver, they could easily find a use for it, by sending it abroad; but they could find none while it remained in the shape of paper."
"But those schools were not supported by the public."
"The rest were mere objects of vulgar wonder and curiosity; some reeds of an extraordinary size, some birds of a very beautiful plumage, and some stuffed skins of the huge alligator and manati; all of which were preceded by six or seven of the wretched natives, whose singular colour and appearance added greatly to the novelty of the show."
"It is a very singular government in which every member of the administration wishes to get out of the country, and consequently to have done with the government, as soon as he can, and to whose interest, the day after he has left it, and carried his whole fortune with him, it is perfectly indifferent though the whole country was swallowed up by an earthquake."
"Unemployment develops, that is to say, because people want the moon;<U+F8E7>men cannot be employed when the object of desire (i.e. money) is something which cannot be produced and the demand for which cannot be readily choked off."
"This double encouragement must they imagine, in a long period of years, occasion such an increase in the production of corn,"
"This support, however, still requires a certain portion of that produce."
"The extent to which prices (in terms of wage units) will rise, ie the extent to which real wages will fall, when money expenditure is increased, depends, therefore, on the elasticity of output in response to expenditure in terms of wage units."
"what then could make me consent to give."
"It may be, for example, that gold will continue to fill this le in a country which has gone over to an inconvertible paper standard."
"This postulate is compatible with what may be called 'frictional' unemployment."
"The deeds of assignment, like the conveyances of a verbose attorney, would be more cumbersome; but the thing assigned would be precisely the same as before, and could produce only the same effects."
"Hence we shall not only come nearest to common usage but will also arrive at a concept which is relevant to the amount of consumption, if, in defining aggregate net income, we deduct the supplementary cost as well as the user cost, so that aggregate net income is equal to A"
"That part of his capital which had usually been employed in purchasing materials, and in paying his workmen, might, without much difficulty, perhaps, find another employment; but that part of it which was fixed in workhouses, and in the instruments of trade, could scarce be disposed of without considerable loss."
"But as a measure of quantity, such as the natural foot, fathom, or handful, which is continually varying in its own quantity, can never be an accurate measure of the quantity of other things; so a commodity which is itself continually varying in its own value, can never be an accurate measure of the value of other commodities."
"If these improvements extended to all the objects of the labourer's consumption, we should find him probably at the end of a very few years, in possession of only a small, if any, addition to his enjoyments, although the exchangeable value of those commodities, compared with any other commodity, in the manufacture of which no such improvement were made, had sustained a very considerable reduction; and though they were the produce of a very considerably diminished quantity of labour."
"The price or value of his labouring cattle is a fixed capital, in the same manner as that of the instruments of husbandry; their maintenance is a circulating capital, in the same manner as that of the labouring servants."
"That this monopoly of the home market frequently gives great encouragement to that particular species of industry which enjoys it, and frequently turns towards that employment a greater share of both the labour and stock of the society than would otherwise have gone to it, cannot be doubted."
"But in old days, when a country was mainly dependent on its own harvest, it is difficult to see any possible cause of fluctuations in investment, except war, which was in any way comparable in magnitude with changes in the carry over of agricultural products."
"The parts of education which are commonly taught in universities, it may perhaps be said, are not very well taught."
"For the assumption that income is constant is inconsistent with the assumption that these two curves can shift independently of one another."
"His theories established the field of macroeconomics and his influence is felt by every nation on earth."
"We have shown above that the amount of consumption depends on net income rather than on income, since it is, by definition, his net income that a man has primarily in mind when he is deciding his scale of consumption."
"The ancient institutions of Greece and Rome seem to have been much more effectual for maintaining the martial spirit of the great body of the people, than the establishment of what are called the militias of modern times."
"I myself held with conviction for many years the theories which I now attack, and I am not, I think, ignorant of their strong points."
"Such a clergy, however, while they pay their court in this manner to the higher ranks of life, are very apt to neglect altogether the means of maintaining their influence and authority with the lower."
"The profits of stock vary with the price of the commodities in which it is employed."
"Money may be requisite for purchasing the materials and tools of the work, as well as the maintenance of the workmen; but the quantity of industry which the whole capital can employ, is certainly not equal both to the money which purchases, and to the materials, tools, and maintenance, which are purchased with it, but only to one or other of those two values, and to the latter more properly than to the former."
"All production is for the purpose of ultimately satisfying a consumer."
"This difficulty is not made less by certain changes in terminology which I have felt compelled to make."
"First, the wages of labour vary with the ease or hardship, the cleanliness or dirtiness, the honourableness or dishonourableness, of the employment."
"His ordinary expense becomes equal to his ordinary revenue, and it is well if it does not frequently exceed it."
"upon more than three fourths of all its dealings."
"For there may be no method available to labour as a whole whereby it can bring the wage goods equivalent of the general level of money wages into conformity with the marginal disutility of the current volume of employment."
"I believed this to be a development and clarification of Wicksell's 'natural rate of interest', which was, according to him, the rate which would preserve the stability of some, not quite clearly specified, price level."
"It was found, however, that the price of all goods from the mother country rose exactly in proportion as they raised the denomination of their coin, so that their gold and silver were exported as fast as ever."
"The trade of the merchant exporter was, in this manner, not only encouraged by a bounty, but rendered much more free than that of the inland dealer."
"The quantity of silver commonly in the market, it is probable, is much greater in proportion to that of gold, than the value of a certain quantity of gold is to that of an equal quantity of silver."
"It is not because they are poor that their payments are irregular and uncertain, but because they are too eager to become excessively rich."
"But a temporary rise in the price of corn, produced by an increased demand from abroad, would have no effect on the money price of wages."
"If by an improved machine I can, with the same quantity of labour, make two pair of stockings instead of one, I in no way impair the utility of one pair of stockings, though I diminish their value."
"But in all the English colonies, the tenure of the lands, which are all held by free soccage, facilitates alienation; and the grantee of an extensive tract of land generally finds it for his interest to alienate, as fast as he can, the greater part of it, reserving only a small quit rent."
"per quarter in this country, we saw, that with a bounty of."
"But it is not necessary for the stimulation of these activities and the satisfaction of these proclivities that the game should be played for such high stakes as at present."
"The price of fuel has so important an influence upon that of labour, that all over Great Britain, manufactures have confined themselves principally to the coal counties; other parts of the country, on account of the high price of this necessary article, not being able to work so cheap."
"Some of its merchants will find it for their interest to reside in the East Indies, and to employ their capitals there in providing goods for the ships which are to be sent out by other merchants who reside in Europe."
"If he was an economist, he generally found it more profitable to employ his annual savings in new purchases than in the improvement of his old estate."
"The whole French capital annually employed in it would annually be distributed among the people of France; but that part of the English capital only, which was employed in producing the English commodities with which those foreign goods were purchased, would be annually distributed among the people of England."
"The labour of Englishmen cannot be given for that of Englishmen, but the produce of the labour of Englishmen may be given for the produce of the labour of Portuguese, Russians, or East Indians."
"Whatever may be the price of wood, if that of coals is such that the expense of a coal fire is nearly equal to that of a wood one we may be assured, that at that place, and in these circumstances, the price of coals is as high as it can be."
"Notwithstanding any regulation of this kind, it appeared, by the course of exchange with Great Britain, that sterling was occasionally considered as equivalent, in some of the colonies, to and in others to so great a sum as currency; this difference in the value arising from the difference in the quantity of paper emitted in the different colonies, and in the distance and probability of the term of its final discharge and redemption."
"The avidity, however, which suggested this notable piece of mercantile ingenuity, most probably disappointed itself of its object."
"In his letters to Ferdinand and Isabella, he called the countries which he had discovered the Indies."
"Thus it is natural<U+F8E7>at any rate on the average of the community<U+F8E7>that current consumption should be expanded when employment increases, but by less than the full increment of real income; and that it should be diminished when employment diminishes, but by less than the full decrement of real income."
"The unavoidable ignorance of administration, besides, concerning the relative importance of the different members of those different assemblies, the offences which must frequently be given, the blunders which must constantly be committed, in attempting to manage them in this manner, seems to render such a system of management altogether impracticable with regard to them."
"The annual produce of its land and labour, however, would be the same, or very nearly the same as usual; because the same, or very nearly the same consumable capital would be employed in maintaining it."
"They do not seem to offend much against any of the other three."
"It is undoubtedly true, that the farmer does calculate his probable outgoings of all descriptions, when agreeing with his landlord concerning the rent of his farm; and if for the tithe paid to the church, or for the tax on the produce of the land, he were not compensated by a rise in the relative value of the produce of his farm, he would naturally deduct them from his rent."
"One branch, either of foreign ordomestic trade, cannot well be a much more intricate business than another."
"They were subjected, indeed, to a small poundage duty, amounting only to threepence in the hundred weight, upon their re exportation."
"It is the object of that system to enrich a great nation, rather by trade and manufactures than by the improvement and cultivation of land, rather by the industry of the towns than by that of the country."
"The significance of the money rate of interest arises, therefore, out of the combination of the characteristics that, through the working of the liquidity motive, this rate of interest may be somewhat unresponsive to a change in the proportion which the quantity of money bears to other forms of wealth measured in money, and that money has (or may have) zero (or negligible) elasticities"
"Though, by this oppressive policy, a landed nation should be able to raise up artificers, manufacturers, and merchants of its own, somewhat sooner than it could do by the freedom of trade; a matter, however, which is not a little doubtful; yet it would raise them up, if one may say so, prematurely, and before it was perfectly ripe for them."
"A much more sober and judicious writer, Mr Anderson, author of the Historical and Chronological Deduction of Commerce, very justly observes, that upon examining the accounts which Mr Dobbs himself has given for several years together, of their exports and imports, and upon making proper allowances for their extraordinary risk and expense, it does not appear that their profits deserve to be envied, or that they can much, if at all, exceed the ordinary profits of trade."
"A second condition, therefore, is required to distinguish money from other rent elements."
"In all the presbyterian churches, where the rights of patronage are thoroughly established, it is by nobler and better arts, that the established clergy in general endeavour to gain the favour of their superiors; by their learning, by the irreproachable regularity of their life, and by the faithful and diligent discharge of their duty."
"Say appears to me to have been singularly unfortunate in his definition of riches and value in the first chapter of his excellent work: the following is the substance of his reasoning: riches, he observes, consist only of things which have a value in themselves: riches are great, when the sum of the values of which they are composed is great."
"In the first case, money is low relatively to all commodities; in the other, corn is high relatively to all."
"If the supplementary cost is heavy, it follows that the marginal user cost will be low when there is surplus equipment."
"In when the French king was at Utrecht, the bank of Amsterdam paid so readily, as left no doubt of the fidelity with which it had observed its engagements."
"But when barter ceases, and money has become the common instrument of commerce, every particular commodity is more frequently exchanged for money than for any other commodity."
"When you dam up a stream of water, as soon as the dam is full, as much water must run over the dam head as if there was no dam at all."
"No master hatter can have more than two apprentices anywhere in England, or in the English plantations, under pain of forfeiting; five pounds a month, half to the king, and half to him who shall sue in any court of record."
"The object of such a title is to contrast the character of my arguments and conclusions with those of the classical theory of the subject, upon which I was brought up and whichdominates the economic thought, both practical and theoretical, of the governing and academic classes of this generation, as it has for a hundred years past."
"In the bank was allowed to enlarge its capital stock, by an ingraftment of."
"It is not their nominal price only, but their real price, which rises in the progress of improvement."
"In the following examination of different taxes, I shall seldom take much farther notice of this sort of inequality; but shall, in most cases, confine my observations to that inequality which is occasioned by a particular tax falling unequally upon that particular sort of private revenue which is affected by it."
"The price of flax resolves itself into the same three parts as that of corn."
"I am myself impressed by the great social advantages of increasing the stock of capital until it ceases to be scarce."
"The first period of society, that of hunters, admits of no such inequality."
"In the case of short term expectations this is because changes in expectation are not, as a rule, sufficiently violent or rapid, when they are for the worse, to cause the abandonment of work on all the productive processes which, in the light of the revised expectation, it was a mistake to have begun; whilst, when they are for the better, some time for preparation must needs elapse before employment can reach the level at which it would have stood if the state of expectation had been revised sooner."
"Dr. Smith appears to have forgotten his own principle, in his argument on colony currency."
"They furnish it both with the materials of its work, and with the fund of its subsistence, with the corn and cattle which it consumes while it is employed about that work."
"When the sovereign or chief exercises his judicial authority in his own person, how much soever he might abuse it, it must have been scarce possible to get any redress; because there could seldom be any body powerful enough to call him to account."
"The influence, besides, of the ancient institutions, was much more universal."
"Manufactures, those of the finer kind especially, are more easily transported from one country to another than corn or cattle."
"per annum, is And an annuity of."
"This, perhaps, is nearly the present state of Bengal, and of some other of the English settlements in the East Indies."
"Christiern was afterwards deposed from the throne of Denmark, where his conduct had rendered him as odious as in Sweden."
"It is unfit either for corn, or pasture, or vineyard, or, indeed, for any other vegetable produce that is very useful to men; and the lands which are fit for those purposes are not fit for rice."
"Though there is not at present in Europe, any civilized state of any kind which derives the greater part of its public revenue from the rent of lands which are the property of the state; yet, in all the great monarchies of Europe, there are still many large tracts of land which belong to the crown."
"A caution may be added against the common view that the amount of capital accumulated in any year is necessarily equal to the amount of savings made in it."
"The gross revenue of the society, the annual produce of their land and labour, is increased by the whole value which the labour of those workmen adds to the materials upon which they are employed, and their neat revenue by what remains of this value, after deducting what is necessary for supporting the tools and instruments of their trade."
"Let the two nations, between which the commercial treaty is made, be the mother country and her colony, and Adam Smith, it is evident, admits, that a mother country may be benefited by oppressing her colony."
"If in each college, the tutor or teacher, who was to instruct each student in all arts and sciences, should not be voluntarily chosen by the student, but appointed by the head of the college; and if, in case of neglect, inability, or bad usage, the student should not be allowed to change him for another, without leave first asked and obtained; such a regulation would not only tend very much to extinguish all emulation among the different tutors of the same college, but to diminish very much, in all of them, the necessity of diligence and of attention to their respective pupils."
"Yet this assumption reduces the argument to an ignoratio elenchi."
"Without the intervention of his labour, Nature does herself the greater part of the work which remains to be done."
"But that it might not appear to preclude altogether the common people of one parish from ever establishing themselves with security in another"
"This company, therefore, have always enjoyed an exclusive trade, in fact, though they may have no right to it in law."
"If, for example, a government employs additional men on public works, and if the multiplier (as defined above) is it is not safe to assume that aggregate employment will increase by."
"The landlord and tenant, for example, might jointly be obliged to record their lease in a public register."
"Each person, therefore, making a tenth part of forty eight thousand pins, might be considered as making four thousand eight hundred pins in a day."
"After all the proper subjects of taxation have been exhausted, if the exigencies of the state still continue to require new taxes, they must be imposed upon improper ones."
"continued to be the legal rate of interest till the st of James I. when it was restricted to eight percent."
"The profit is made by keeping them."
"Notwithstanding these favourable allegations, however, the following considerations dispose me to believe, that in granting at least one of these bounties, the legislature has been very grossly imposed upon: First, The herring buss bounty seems too large."
"A tax is sometimes not only farmed for a certain rent, but the farmer has, besides, the monopoly of the commodity taxed."
"Their interest is, in this respect, directly opposite to that of the great body of the people."
"America pays no tythe, and could, therefore, very well afford to pay a land tax."
"About the middle of the last century, it came to be regulated, between the proportions of one to fourteen and one to fifteen; that is, an ounce of fine gold came to be supposed worth between fourteen and fifteen ounces of fine silver."
"The quantity of money, therefore, which can be annually employed in any country, must be determined by the value of the consumable goods annually circulated within it."
"A long minority, which, in the present times, so frequently disburdens a great estate of all its incumbrances, and restores the family to their ancient splendour, could in those times have no such effect."
"Its rude produce being charged with less carriage, the traders could pay the growers a better price for it, and yet afford it as cheap to the consumers as that of more distant countries."
"Only when it had been completed was the way prepared for substantial recovery."
"Even at this early period, it was certainly a more improved country than at the invasion of Julius Caesar, when its inhabitants were nearly in the same state with the savages in North America."
"In reality, however, it is the goods which are cheap in the one case, and dear in the other."
"In England, success in the profession of the law leads to some very great objects of ambition; and yet how few men, born to easy fortunes, have ever in this country been eminent in that profession?"
"The usual corporation spirit, wherever the law does not restrain it, prevails in all regulated companies."
"The avidity of our great manufacturers, however, has in some cases extended these exemptions a good deal beyond what can justly be considered as the rude materials of their work."
"It is the sober and industrious poor who generally bring up the most numerous families, and who principally supply the demand for useful labour."
"It can never be the interest of those landed nations, if I may call them so, to discourage or distress the industry of such mercantile states, by imposing high duties upon their trade, or upon the commodities which they furnish."
"But I myself in writing it, and in other recent work which has led up to it, have felt myself to be breaking away from this orthodoxy, to be in strong reaction against it, to be escaping from something, to be gaining an emancipation."
"The capital which sends British goods to Portugal, and brings back Portuguese goods to Great Britain, replaces, by every such operation, only one British capital."
"In proportion as these countries become populous, and land of a worse quality is taken into cultivation, the tendency to an increase of capital diminishes; for the surplus produce remaining, after satisfying the wants of the existing population, must necessarily be in proportion to the facility of production, viz."
"The rise of rent is always the effect of the increasing wealth of the country, and of the difficulty of providing food for its augmented population."
"He generally considers it as a favour, therefore, when the administration admits him to a share in the first subscription for a new loan."
"A decision to consume or not to consume truly lies within the power of the individual; so does a decision to invest or not to invest."
"The difficulty of obtaining settlements obstructs even that of common labour."
"He has no inspection of it."
"before it would be the interest of the holders to demand coin for the purpose of melting it into bullion; a depreciation to which we should never be exposed, if either there was no seignorage on the gold coin; or, if a seignorage were allowed, the holders of bank notes might demand bullion, and not coin, in exchange for them, at the mint price of. ."
"For it is not sensible to pay for an investment of which you believe the prospective yield to justify a value of if you also believe that the market will value it at three months hence."
"But apart from this contemporary mood, the ideas of economists and political philosophers, both when they are right and when they are wrong, are more powerful than is commonly understood."
"that the argument, which he advances against 'secondary' employment as a result of public works, is, on the same assumptions, equally fatal to increased 'primary' employment from the same policy."
"Suppose now, that England discovers, that she can import more linen from Germany, for the silks which she before exported to Scotland, and that Scotland discovers that she can obtain more silks from France in return for her linen, than she before obtained from England, will not England and Scotland immediately cease trading with each other, and will not the home trade of consumption be changed for a foreign trade of consumption?"
"In all improved countries, that which is annually paid to the landlord, partaking of both characters, rent and profit, is sometimes kept stationary by the effects of opposing causes, at other times advances or recedes, as one or other of these causes preponderates."
"It happens, however, that the goodness of the fleece depends, in a great measure, upon the health, growth, and bulk of the animal: the same attention which is necessary for"
"The holder of a receipt, when he purchases bank money, purchases the power of taking out a quantity of bullion, of which the mint price is five percent."
"The common rate of profit, therefore, must be somewhat greater."
"As it depends more, however, upon the local situation of the country, than upon the state of its wealth and industry; as upon this account it may in different countries be the same in very different periods of improvement, and very different in the same period; its connection with the state of improvement is uncertain; and it is of this sort of uncertainty that I am here speaking."
"The land which pays it produces it."
"If the grant of a bank credit to an entrepreneur additional to the credits already existing allows him to make an addition to current investment which would not have occurred otherwise, incomes will necessarily be increased and at a rate which will normally exceed the rate of increased investment."
"though he gets a higher rate of profits, he has no greater command of the produce of the land and labour of the country."
"It maybe presumed, that he actually does so upon some particular occasions."
"I is measured vertically, and the rate of interest horizontally."
"The proprietor furnished them with the seed, cattle, and instruments of husbandry, the whole stock, in short, necessary for cultivating the farm."
"The revenue which has arisen from it was unforeseen, and may be considered as accidental."
"With regard to misconduct, the number of prudent and successful undertakings is everywhere much greater than that of injudicious and unsuccessful ones."
"The peculiarity in my former definition related to that part of aggregate income which accrues to the entrepreneurs, since I took neither the profit (whether gross or net) actually realised from their current operations nor the profit which they expected when they decided to undertake their current operations, but in some sense (not, as I now think, sufficiently defined if we allow for the possibility of changes in the scale of output) a normal or equilibrium profit; with the result that on this definition saving exceeded investment by the amount of the excess of normal profit over the actual profit."
"He is eager, therefore, to collect labourers from all quarters, and to reward them with the most liberal wages."
"In this event employment would be constant (at the level appropriate to the legal real wage) with money wages and prices fluctuating rapidly in the degree just necessary to maintain this rate of investment at the appropriate figure."
", two and a half percent."
"In the end of the reign of Henry., and in the beginning of that of Edward., the English coin was not only raised in its denomination, but adulterated in its standard."
"But if, from the present revenue of Great Britain, a million could, in peaceable times, be spared towards the payment of that debt, six millions two hundred and fifty thousand pounds could very well be spared from this improved revenue."
"The trading stock of the South Sea company at one time amounted to upwards of thirty three millions eight hundred thousand pounds."
"Hence, too, the extraordinary restraints upon the importation of almost all sorts of goods from those countries with which the balance of trade is supposed to be disadvantageous; that is, from those against whom national animosity happens ta be most violently inflamed."
"The beauty of the country, besides, the pleasure of a country life, the tranquillity of mind which it promises, and, wherever the injustice of human laws does not disturb it, the independency which it really affords, have charms that, more or less, attract everybody; and as to cultivate the ground was the original destination of man, so, in every stage of his existence, he seems to retain a predilection for this primitive employment."
"If half his wages were expended on corn, and the other half on soap, candles, fuel, tea, sugar, clothing, andc., commodities on which no rise is supposed to take place, it is evident that he would be quite as well paid with a bushel and a half of wheat, when it was."
"The art of war, however, as it is certainly the noblest of all arts, so, in the progress of improvement, it necessarily becomes one of the most complicated among them."
"higher in one country than another, and if at the same time the nominal value of the farmer's capital be percent."
"Though they had the same interest, therefore, to attend to the maintenance of such forts and garrisons, they can seldom have the same ability to render that attention effectual."
"The effect of the monopoly has been, not to augment the quantity, but to alter the quality and shape of a part of the manufactures of Great Britain, and to accommodate to a market, from which the returns are slow and distant, what would otherwise have been accommodated to one from which the returns are frequent and near."
"But the above cover, I think, those which are usually the most important."
"A certain quantity of materials, and the labour of a certain number of workmen, both of which might have been immediately employed to augment the food, clothing, and lodging, the subsistence and conveniencies of the society, are thus diverted to another employment, highly advantageous indeed, but still different from this one."
"This is the inevitable result of investment markets organised with a view to so called 'liquidity'."
"They were granted, not as the proper fund upon which the money was borrowed, but as an additional encouragement to the lender."
"Ireland contains more than two millions of people, and, according to the accounts laid before the congress, the twelve associated provinces of America contain more than three."
"Is it likely that, in Great Britain alone, a practice, which has brought either weakness or dissolution into every other country, should prove altogether innocent?"
"The profits only return regularly to Holland, and constitute the whole addition which this trade necessarily makes to the annual produce of the land and labour of that country."
"Its coffers were never well filled."
"Suppose the gross produce of the land of the quality"
"In all the disputes which their sovereign has had with the pope, they have almost constantly taken part with the former."
", it was at least equal, perhaps superior to the united navies of France and Holland."
"Whereas, upon the same quantity of goods carried by water, there is to be charged only the maintenance of six or eight men, and the wear and tear of a ship of two hundred tons burthen, together with the value of the superior risk, or the difference of the insurance between land and water carriage."
"Virtue and vice play no part."
"Thus in equilibrium the demand prices of houses and wheat in terms of money will be such that there is nothing to choose in the way of advantage between the alternatives;<U+F8E7>i.e."
"The frequent loss of those metals from various accidents by sea and by land, the continual waste of them in gilding and plating, in lace and embroidery, in the wear and tear of coin, and in that of plate, require, in all countries which possess no mines of their own, a continual importation, in order to repair this loss and this waste."
"On the contrary, in the countries which, either from excessive heat or cold, produce no grapes, and where wine consequently is dear and a rarity, drunkenness is a common vice, as among the northern nations, and all those who live between the tropics, the negroes, for example on the coast of Guinea."
"Upon all these accounts, therefore, we may rest assured, that equal quantities of corn will, in every state of society, in every stage of improvement, more nearly represent, or be equivalent to, equal quantities of labour, than equal quantities of any other part of the rude produce of land."
"that the quantity annually produced is determined by the aggregates of Natural Agents, Capital, and Labour available, is erroneous, and that, on the contrary, the quantity produced, while it can never exceed the limits imposed by these aggregates, may be, and actually is, reduced far below this maximum by the check that undue saving and the consequent accumulation of over supply exerts on production; ie that in the normal state of modern industrial Communities, consumption limits production and not production consumption."
"That employment may, perhaps, be more profitable to him than the greater part of other employments; but on account of the slowness of the returns, it cannot be more advantageous to his country."
"They loaded the public revenue with a very considerable expense: they imposed a very heavy tax upon the whole body of the people; but they did not, in any sensible degree, increase the real value of their own commodity; and by lowering somewhat the real value of silver, they discouraged, in some degree, the general industry of the country, and, instead of advancing, retarded more or less the improvement of their own lands, which necessarily depend upon the general industry of the country."
"It is possible, indeed, that no more than ten pounds worth of this value may ever have existed at any one moment of time."
"It may, however, be again remarked, that unless the monopoly of the foreign market be in the hands of an exclusive company, no more will be paid for commodities by foreign purchasers than by home purchasers; the price which they will both pay will not differ greatly from their natural price in the country where they are produced."
"If he uses it as a capital, he employs it in the maintenance of productive labourers, who reproduce the value, with a profit."
"They would have been produced by a smaller quantity of labour; and as the commodities produced by equal quantities of labour would naturally in this state of things be exchanged for one another, they would have been purchased likewise with the produce of a smaller quantity."
"The second point to be considered is more subtle."
"upon each repetition, together with the legal interest of five percent."
"The great number of people maintained by the fertile lands afford a market to many parts of the produce of the barren, which they could never have found among those whom their own produce could maintain."
"It sometimes happened, however, that the landlord would stipulate, that he should be at liberty to demand of the tenant, either the annual payment in kind or a certain sum of money instead of it."
"as it appears by the accounts of the mint."
"That the units, in terms of which economists commonly work, are unsatisfactory can be illustrated by the concepts of the national dividend, the stock of real capital and the general price level: (i)"
"High price, if the expression be used in this sense, cannot then be called a cause of rent; it cannot be said that the immediate cause of rent is obviously the excess of price above the cost of production, at which raw produce sells in the market, for that excess is itself rent."
"In the manufactures of Birmingham alone, the quantity of gold and silver annually employed in gilding and plating, and thereby disqualified from ever afterwards appearing in the shape of those metals, is said to amount to more than fifty thousand pounds sterling."
"That the trade and industry of Scotland, however, have increased very considerably during this period, and that the banks have contributed a good deal to this increase, cannot be doubted."
"Their manners are more re publican; and their governments, those of three of the provinces of New England in particular, have hitherto been more republican too."
"The motive which excited them to this conquest was a project of gold and silver mines; and a course of accidents which no human wisdom could foresee, rendered this project much more successful than the undertakers had any reasonable grounds for expecting."
"Such were the victories which the Greek militia gained over that of the Persian empire; and such, too, were those which, in later times, the Swiss militia gained over that of the Austrians and Burgundians."
"The patrons of each system of natural and moral philosophy, naturally endeavoured to expose the weakness of the arguments adduced to support the systems which were opposite to their own."
"In the schools, the youth are taught, or at least may be taught, Greek and Latin;"
"A single man, indeed who is healthy and industrious, may sometimes reside by sufferance without one; but a man with a wife and family who should attempt to do so, would, in most parishes, be sure of being removed; and, if the single man should afterwards marry, he would generally be removed likewise."
"The monopoly of the colony trade, besides, by forcing towards it a much greater proportion of the capital of Great Britain than what would naturally have gone to it, seems to have broken altogether that natural balance which would otherwise have taken place among all the different branches of British industry."
"It would be subject to an increase of its value, from a diminution of its quantity."
"The monarchical and democratical parts of the constitution would, after the union, stand exactly in the same degree of relative force with regard to one another as they had done before."
"In the present times, if you except the king of Prussia, to accumulate treasure seems to be no part of the policy of European princes."
"As he can seldom directly oppose their decision, therefore, with proper weight and authority, it is necessary that he should be able to influence it; and he can influence it only by the fears and expectations which he may excite in the greater part of the individuals of the order."
"will be sometimes selling for."
"Investment, thus defined, includes, therefore, the increment of capital equipment, whether it consists of fixed capital, working capital or liquid capital; and the significant differences of definition (apart from the distinction between investment and net investment) are due to the exclusion from investment of one or more of these categories."
"is my fair proportion of the expenses of the country, the virtue of taxation consists in making sure that I shall pay that."
"per annum net for the use of it rather than go without any of it."
"In therefore, the public debt of Great Britain, funded and unfunded together, amounted, according to this author, to."
"Instead of ascribing the depreciation of that paper to its too great abundance, he asks whether, allowing the colony security to be perfectly good, a hundred pounds, payable fifteen years hence, would be equally valuable with a hundred pounds to be paid immediately?"
"We do not, however, merely mean by a cyclical movement that upward and downward tendencies, once started, do not persist for ever in the same direction but are ultimately reversed."
"Wool was commonly paid as a subsidy to the king, and its valuation in that subsidy ascertains, at least in some degree, what was its ordinary price."
"Mr King had judged eight and twenty shillings the quarter to be at that time the ordinary contract price in years of moderate plenty."
"His dialogue between Robinson Crusoe and a stranger is a most excellent economic parable<U+F8E7>as good as anything of the kind that has been written<U+F8E7>to demonstrate this point."
"From the beginning of the last century to the present time, provisions never were cheaper in Scotland than in though, from the circulation of ten and five shilling bank notes, there was then more paper money in the country than at present."
"Those different habits naturally affect their temper and disposition in every sort of business."
"This evil, however, is of too little importance to deserve the public attention, nor would it necessarily be prevented by restricting their numbers."
"It is for others to determine if either of these or the third alternative is right."
"A smaller proportion of it will, therefore, be sufficient to replace, with the ordinary profit, the stock which employs that labour."
"It is the superiority of price which attracts them; and as soon as that superiority ceases, they necessarily cease to go thither."
"Hence the volume of employment in equilibrium depends on (i) the aggregate supply function, (ii)"
"Their situation has placed them less in the view, and less in the power of their mother country."
"Hence the origin of coined money, and of those public offices called mints; institutions exactly of the same nature with those of the aulnagers and stamp masters of woollen and linen cloth."
", whilst he had no compensation whatever, in the rise of his manufactured commodity, for this increased charge of production; capital would consequently flow from manufactures to agriculture, till the supply would again lower the price of corn to."
"This second limitation of the freedom of trade, according to some people, should, upon most occasions, be extended much farther than to the precise foreign commodities which could come into competition with those which had been taxed at home."
"Indeed Professor Fisher's theory could be best rewritten in terms of a 'real rate of interest' defined as being the rate of interest which would have to rule, consequently on a change in the state of expectation as to the future value of money, in order that this change should have no effect on current output."
"All must have had the same duties to perform, and the same work to do, and there could have been no such difference of employment as could alone"
"Monopolies of this kind are properly established against the very nation which erects them."
"Let us suppose that all commodities are at their natural price, and consequently that the profits of capital in all employments are exactly at the same rate, or differ only so much as, in the estimation of the parties, is equivalent to any real or fancied advantage which they possess or forego."
"Those materials are a part of the surplus produce of those countries, which, unless it was annually exchanged for something which is in demand here, would be of no value, and would soon cease to be produced."
"The quantity to be collected, and the district within which it is to be collected, are so small, that they both can oversee, with their own eyes, the collection and disposal of every part of what is due to them."
"By increasing my profits from."
"Had he spent the whole, the food, clothing, and lodging, which the whole could have purchased, would have been distributed among the former set of people."
"But I fancy that all this may impress German readers somewhat differently."
"These causes seem to be, the general liberty of trade, which, notwithstanding some restraints, is at least equal, perhaps superior, to what it is in any other country; the liberty of exporting, duty free, almost all sorts of goods which are the produce ofdomestic industry, to almost any foreign country; and what, perhaps, is of still greater importance, the unbounded liberty of transporting them from one part of our own country to any other, without being obliged to give any account to any public office, without being liable to question or examination of any kind; but, above all, that equal and impartial administration of justice, which renders the rights of the meanest British subject respectable to the greatest, and which, by securing to every man the fruits of his own industry, gives the greatest and most effectual encouragement to every sort of industry."
"Foreign trade, then, though highly beneficial to a country, as it increases the amount and variety of the objects on which revenue may be expended, and affords, by the abundance and cheapness of commodities, incentives to saving,"
"It has been established in Pennsylvania, where, though the quakers happen to be the most numerous, the law, in reality, favours no one sect more than another; and it is there said to have been productive of this philosophical good temper and moderation."
"In great towns, on the contrary, trade can be extended as stock increases, and the credit of a frugal and thriving man increases much faster than his stock."
"The complaint of the workmen, that it puts the ablest and most industrious upon the same footing with an ordinary workman, seems perfectly well founded."
"Let us take investment first."
"Thus any set of definitions which satisfy the above conditions leads to the same conclusion."
"Such rents are always more hurtful to the tenant than beneficial to the landlord."
"In some other countries, the tax is still higher."
"On the contrary, it would, in most cases, be augmented."
"In being the th of Edward was enacted what is called the Statute of Labourers."
"The administration of the French colonies, however, has always been conducted with much more gentleness and moderation than that of the Spanish and Portuguese."
"There is, clearly, no absolute standard of 'liquidity' but merely a scale of liquidity<U+F8E7>a varying premium of which account has to be taken, in addition to the yield of use and the carrying costs, in estimating the comparative attractions of holding different forms of wealth."
"The excise duty upon Scotch salt is at present s:., that upon foreign salt."
"It is important to understand the dependence of the marginal efficiency of a given stock of capital on changes in expectation, because it is chiefly this dependence which renders the marginal efficiency of capital subject to the somewhat violent fluctuations which are the explanation of the trade cycle."
"They did not, perhaps, attend to the great and essential difference which nature has established between corn and almost every other sort of goods."
"It is for this reason that a change over from a policy of government borrowing to the opposite policy of providing sinking funds (or vice versa) is capable of causing a severe contraction (or marked expansion) of effective demand."
"A banking company which issues more paper than can be employed in the circulation of the country, and of which the excess is continually returning upon them for payment, ought to increase the quantity of gold and silver which they keep at all times in their coffers, not only in proportion to this excessive increase of their circulation, but in a much greater proportion; their notes returning upon them much faster than in proportion to the excess of their quantity."
"The lord steward and lord chamberlain looked after the expense of his family."
"I do not, however, pretend to warrant either the greatness of the sum, or the shortness of the time."
"But the more significant change, of which we have to take account, is the effect of changes in demand both on costs and on volume."
"The treasures of Mazepa, chief of the Cossacks in the Ukraine, the famous ally of Charles., are said to have been very great."
"The distribution of these epices, too, is according to the diligence of the judges."
"Under all these discouragements, little improvement could be expected from the occupiers of land."
"Politicians are entitled to complain that money wages ought to be highly flexible; but a theorist must be prepared to deal indifferently with either state of affairs."
"They favour the wine trade of Portugal, and discourage that of France."
"The decay of that general trade may even frequently contribute to the advantage of their own private trade; as, by diminishing the number of their competitors, it may enable them both to buy cheaper, and to sell dearer."
"The demand for those metals arises partly from their utility, and partly from their beauty."
"The method described in the text was by no means either the most common or the most expensive one in which those adventurers sometimes raised money by circulation."
"But the herring bus bounty contributes to no such good purpose."
"So far as their quantity in any particular country depends upon the latter of those two circumstances (the fertility or barrenness of the mines which happen to supply the commercial world), their real price, the real quantity of labour and subsistence which they will purchase or exchange for, will, no doubt, sink more or less in proportion to the fertility, and rise in proportion to the barrenness of those mines."
"The cultivation of tobacco, however, seems not to be so advantageous as that of sugar."
"Thus an increase in the rate of interest, as a remedy for the state of affairs arising out of a prolonged period of abnormally heavy new investment, belongs to the species of remedy which cures the disease by killing the patient."
"These, it seems, are considered as a sort of houses upon the water."
"He thereby saves himself the trouble, risk, and expense of exportation; and he will upon that account be glad to sell them at home, not only for a much smaller price, but with somewhat a smaller profit, than he might expect to make by sending them abroad."
"This reasoning, naturally enough, was by no means confined to England."
"The lands of no country, it is evident, can ever be completely cultivated and improved, till once the price of every produce, which human industry is obliged to raise upon them, has got so high as to pay for the expense of complete improvement and cultivation."
"produce And quarters at."
"There would, and, in this case, no doubt, have been, a great multitude of religious sects."
"Professor Heckscher sums up this aspect of their theory as follows:"
"By the ruin of the smuggler, his capital, which had before been employed in maintaining productive labour, is absorbed either in the revenue of the state, or in that of the revenue officer; and is employed in maintaining unproductive, to the diminution of the general capital of the society, and of the useful industry which it might otherwise have maintained."
"most productive, but on this question it would neither have the right nor the ability to decide."
"It depends upon the proportion between the quantity of labour which is necessary in order to bring a certain quantity of gold and silver to market, and that which is necessary in order to bring thither a certain quantity of any other sort of goods."
"Secondly, suppose the proportions of fixed capital to be the same; but of different degrees of durability."
"In therefore, by the th of Elizabeth, the exportation of wheat was allowed from certain ports, whenever the price of the quarter should not exceed ten shillings, containing nearly the same quantity of silver as the like nominal sum does at present."
"Bounties were given for the encouragement, either of some beginning manufactures, or of such sorts of industry of other kinds as were supposed to deserve particular favour."
"This will be our contention."
"There is the possibility, for the reasons discussed above, that, after the rate of interest has fallen to a certain level, liquidity preference may become virtually absolute in the sense that almost everyone prefers cash to holding a debt which yields so low a rate of interest."
"A man of two hundred a year may keep a single man servant."
"The private interest of our merchants and manufacturers may, perhaps, have extorted from the legislature these exemptions, as well as the greater part of our other commercial regulations."
"He also shows what a large proportion depreciation, etc., normally bears to the value of investment."
"It is not the actual greatness of national wealth, but its continual increase, which occasions a rise in the wages of labour."
"If this rise in the price of some sorts of provisions be owing to a fall in the value of silver, their pecuniary reward, provided it was not too large before"
"In war, an establishment of three or four times that expense becomes necessary for the defence of the state; and consequently, a revenue three or four times greater than the peace revenue."
"The grower's price I understand to be the same with what is sometimes called the contract price, or the price at which a farmer contracts for a certain number of years to deliver a certain quantity of corn to a dealer."
"They were solid, so far as they asserted that the exportation of gold and silver in trade might frequently be advantageous to the country."
"The market rate of interest may fall to percent."
"Whatever is saved by those improvements, therefore, belongs to the landlord as part of his rent."
"The rent of land, however, is, according to some, the sole fund; and, according to others, the principal fund, from which, in all great monarchies, the exigencies of the state must be ultimately supplied."
"The capital expended on these buildings, andc., must afford the usual profits of stock; but it would cease to afford this profit on the land last cultivated, if the expenses of those buildings, andc."
"At the port of London, indeed, it is commonly sold for ready money: the rule is Weigh and pay."
"As the strongest bodies only can live and enjoy health under an unwholesome regimen, so the nations only, that in every sort of industry have the greatest natural and acquired advantages, can subsist and prosper under such taxes."
"The remedy for the evils under which Poland and Ireland suffer, which are similar to those experienced in the South Seas, is to stimulate exertion, to create new wants, and to implant new tastes; for those countries must accumulate a much larger amount of capital, before the diminished rate of production will render the progress of capital necessarily less rapid than the progress of population."
"that enough will not be left to furnish the labourers with absolute necessaries; on the other hand, wages can never rise so high as to leave no portion of this sum for profits."
"But they must be relegated to their right perspective."
"But when a nation is ripe for any great branch of trade, some merchants naturally turn their capitals towards the principal, and some towards the subordinate branches of it; and though all the different branches of it are in this manner carried on, yet it very seldom happens that they are all carried on by the capital of one private merchant."
"Those who dispute this principle, are bound to shew why an increase of money should not have the same effect in raising the price of labour, the quantity of which has not been increased, as they acknowledge it would have on the price of shoes, of hats, and of corn, if the quantity of those commodities were not increased."
"If when wages rose, the farmer could raise the price of his corn, and the clothier, the hatter, the shoemaker, and every other manufacturer, could also raise the price of their goods in proportion to the advance, although estimated in money, they might be all raised, they would continue to bear the same value relatively to each other."
"But whilst there may be intrinsic reasons for the scarcity of land, there are no intrinsic reasons for the scarcity of capital."
"On the contrary, the mere definition of the rate of interest tells us in so many words that the rate of interest is the reward for parting with liquidity for a specified period."
"On the other hand, every diminution in the wages of labour raises profits, but produces no effect on the price of commodities."
"In this case, therefore, I think it is clearly demonstrated that a rise in the price of corn, which increases the money wages of the labourer, diminishes the money value of the farmer's profits."
"The tax and prohibition operate in two different ways."
"some definitions<U+F8E7>to the quantity of money minus what is required to satisfy the transactions motive); and the quantity of money is not determined by the public."
"Payments have, in general, been more regular from the northern than from the tobacco colonies, though the former have generally paid a pretty large balance in money, while the latter have either paid no balance, or a much smaller one."
"You must pay too for the tax upon the salt, upon the soap, and upon the candles, which those workmen consume while employed in your service, and for the tax upon the leather, which the salt maker, the soap maker, and the candle maker consume, while employed in their service."
"To simplify the consideration of this subject, I have been supposing that a rise in the value of raw materials would affect, in an equal proportion, all home commodities; that if the effect on one were to raise it percent."
"I have also attempted to shew, that if a tax were general, and affected equally all profits, whether manufacturing or agricultural, it would not operate either on the price of goods or raw produce, but would be immediately, as well as ultimately, paid by the producers."
"Their usual pretences are, sometimes the high price of provisions, sometimes the great profit which their masters make by their work."
"Summer wages are always highest."
"Let the same natural liberty of exercising what species of industry they please, be restored to all his Majesty's subjects, in the same manner as to soldiers and seamen; that is, break down the exclusive privileges of corporations, and repeal the statute of apprenticeship, both which are really encroachments upon natural Liberty, and add to those the repeal of the law of settlements, so that a poor workman, when thrown out of employment, either in one trade or in one place, may seek for it in another trade or in another place, without the fear either of a prosecution or of a removal; and neither the public nor the individuals will suffer much more from the occasional disbanding some particular classes of manufacturers, than from that of the soldiers."
"yet I know no capital in which a furnished apartment can be hired so cheap."
"A diamond, on the contrary, has scarce any value in use; but a very great quantity of other goods may frequently be had in exchange for it."
"Now, in so far as the classical theory assumes that real wages are always equal to the marginal disutility of labour and that the latter increases when employment increases, so that the labour supply will fall off; cet. par."
"For if entrepreneurs offer employment on a scale which, if they could sell their output at the expected price, would provide the public with incomes out of which they would save more than the amount of current investment, entrepreneurs are bound to make a loss equal to the difference; and this will be the case absolutely irrespective of the level of money wages."
"In the history of the arts, now publishing by the French Academy of Sciences, several of them are actually explained in this manner."
"It is not by the importation of gold and silver that the discovery of America has enriched Europe."
"Wherever money is received by tale, therefore, and not by weight, a seignorage is the most effectual preventive of the melting down of the coin, and, for the same reason, of its exportation."
"heavy;<U+F8E7>a bank may have to charge its customers to percent."
", and the silver more than eight percent."
"No one colony in America is supposed to contain so great a number of people of European extraction."
"My definition is, therefore, as follows:"
"It must likewise contribute more to encourage her industry."
"The frequent conquests of all the civilized countries in Asia by the Tartars, sufficiently demonstrates the natural superiority which the militia of a barbarous has over that of a civilized nation."
"When they observed, that within moderate periods of time, the repayments of a particular customer were, upon most occasions, fully equal to the advances which they had made to him, they might be assured that the paper money which they had advanced to him had not, at any time, exceeded the quantity of gold and silver which he would otherwise have been obliged to keep by him for answering occasional demands; and that, consequently, the paper money, which they had circulated by his means, had not at any time exceeded the quantity of gold and silver which would have circulated in the country, had there been no paper money."
"But, above all, individualism, if it can be purged of its defects and its abuses, is the best safeguard of personal liberty in the sense that, compared with any other system, it greatly widens the field for the exercise of personal choice."
"the expectation of which will induce a level of employment Nr."
"A gardener who cultivates his own garden with his own hands, unites in his own person the three different characters, of landlord, farmer, and labourer."
"The cheapness of their goods would increase the demand for them, and consequently for the labour of those who produced them."
"I can best introduce what I have to say by beginning with the later stages of the boom and the onset of the 'crisis'."
"In England, those arts have been long neglected by the well endowed clergy of the established church, and are at present chiefly cultivated by the dissenters and by the methodists."
"Should this currency, therefore, be at any time worn, clipt, or otherwise degraded below its standard value, the state, by a reformation of its coin, can effectually re establish its currency."
"Their rents are remitted to them in sugar and rum, the produce of their estates."
"The one is four pounds sixteen shillings of the money of those times, equal to fourteen pounds eight shillings of that of the present; the other is six pounds eight shillings, equal to nineteen pounds four shillings of our present money."
"But there are other employments in which the same quantity of industry will not always produce the same quantity of commodities."
"It has proved more expensive than any one of our former wars, and has involved us in an additional debt of more than one hundred millions."
"When that form has been so altered by manufacture of any kind as to come under a new denomination, they are called bounties."
"It is certain that the world will not much longer tolerate the unemployment which, apart from brief intervals of excitement, is associated<U+F8E7>and,"
"the same nominal sum does at present."
"That destined for performing the same office with regard to the freeman is managed by the freeman himself."
"Say says, This mode of taxation appears to be the most equitable; there is however none which is less so: it totally leaves out of consideration the advances made by the producer; it is proportioned to the gross, and not to the net revenue."
"England exported cloth in exchange for wine, because by so doing, her industry was rendered more productive to her; she had more cloth and wine than if she had manufactured both for herself; and Portugal imported cloth, and exported wine, because the industry of Portugal could be more beneficially employed for both countries in producing wine."
"It is not impossible, too, notwithstanding this general expression of one of the most judicious and reserved of modern historians, that Italy was not at that time better cultivated than England is at present."
"It was granted in the same manner as that for the importation of hemp and undressed flax from America, for twenty one years, from the th June to the th June."
"There is scarce a poor man in England, of forty years of age, I will venture to say, who has not, in some part of his life, felt himself most cruelly oppressed by this ill contrived law of settlements."
"But, having given the reason why the money rate of interest unlike most commodity rates of interest cannot be negative, he altogether overlooks the need of an explanation why the money rate of interest is positive, and he fails to explain why the moneyrate of interest is not governed (as the classical school maintains) by the standard set by the yield on productive capital."
"is to be landed at the particular port for which it is entered outwards; and if my part of it is landed without the presence of an officer, not only the forfeiture of the wool is incurred, as in other goods, but the usual additional penalty of."
"I shall hereafter have occasion to make several comparisons of this kind."
"It should be obvious that the rate of interest cannot be a return to saving or waiting as such."
"The far greater part is circulated and consumed among themselves; and even of the surplus which is sent abroad, the greater part is generally destined for the purchase of other foreign goods."
"The capital of a foreigner gives a value to their surplus produce equally with that of a native, by exchanging it for something for which there is a demand at home."
"The corn of the rich country, therefore, will not always, in the same degree of goodness, come cheaper to market than that of the poor."
"Those militias which, like the Tartar or Arab militia, go to war under the same chieftains whom they are accustomed to obey in peace, are by far the best."
"All the ancient sovereigns of Europe, accordingly, it has already been observed, had treasures."
"Jack of all trades will never be rich, says the proverb."
"The denominations of those coins seem originally to have expressed the weight or quantity of metal contained in them."
"But that market price is the same whether it is paid in gold or in silver coin."
"When he foresees that provisions are likely to run short, he puts them upon short allowance."
"It may refer to investments which are destined to disappoint the expectations which prompted them or for which there is no use in conditions of severe unemployment, or it may indicate a state of affairs where every kind of capital goods is so abundant that there is no new investment which is expected, even in conditions of full employment, to earn in the course of its life more than its replacement cost."
"Unless reasons are believed to exist why future experience will be very different from past experience, a long term rate of interest of (say) percent leaves more to fear than to hope, and offers, at the same time, a running yield which is only sufficient to offset a very small measure of fear."
"It is true that in a society liable to change such a policy cannot be perfectly successful."
"The same encouragement is given in Peru to the discovery and working of new gold mines; and in gold the king's tax amounts only to a twentieth part of the standard rental."
"Saving and Investment Amidst the welter of divergent usages of terms, it is agreeable to discover one fixed point."
"Whether wages or profits rise or fall, it is this sum of."
"His education would generally in this way be more effectual, and always less tedious and expensive."
"This further step is an integral part of our theory of employment, since it establishes a precise relationship, given the propensity to consume, between aggregate employment and income and the rate of investment."
"Thus, if a guinea be the weekly pension of a particular person, he can in the course of the week purchase with it a certain quantity of subsistence, conveniencies, and amusements."
"Four minae were equal to thirteen pounds six shillings and eightpence; five minae to sixteen pounds thirteen shillings and fourpence."
"But what all the violence of the feudal institutions could never have effected, the silent and insensible operation of foreign commerce and manufactures gradually brought about."
"They have many of them become very learned, ingenious, and respectable men; but they have in general ceased to be very popular preachers."
"But to make this into a theory of the rate of interest or to derive the rate of interest from it involves a circular argument, as Marshall discovered after he had got half way into giving an account of the rate of interest along these lines."
"This enables us to determine what amount of employment in each industry will correspond to a given level of aggregate employment."
"Of all the opinions advanced by able and ingenious men, which I have ever met with, the opinion of."
"In asserting that nature has stamped a real value on corn, which cannot be altered by merely altering its money price, Dr. Smith confounds its value in use, with its value in exchange."
"It must be observed, however, that whatever may be the supposed annual importation of gold and silver, there must be a certain period at which the annual consumption of those metals will be equal to that annual importation."
"But where is the proof of this?"
"Entails, however, are still respected, through the greater part of Europe; In those countries, particularly, in which noble birth is a necessary qualification for the enjoyment either of civil or military honours."
"Since, in practice, it is impossible to neglect the balance of payments, a means of controlling it was evolved which, instead of protecting thedomestic rate of interest, sacrificed it to the operation of blind forces."
"If he wants it as a capital for employing industry, it is from those goods only that the industrious can be furnished with the tools, materials, and maintenance necessary for carrying on their work."
"In either of these cases the metals would fall in value, and would therefore exchange for a less quantity of other things."
"Does he not here fully acknowledge that if any increase takes place in the quantity of labour, required to bring one sort of goods to market, whilst no such increase takes place in bringing another sort thither, those goods will rise in relative value."
"The children, during the tender years of infancy, are well fed and properly taken care of; and when they are grown up, the value of their labour greatly overpays their maintenance."
"If his annual wages were before."
"His business is simply to purchase English cloth, and to pay for it by a bill of exchange, which he purchases with Portuguese money."
"the exportation to foreign parts, of any utensils made use of in the cotton, linen, woollen, and silk manufactures, is prohibited under the penalty, not only of the forfeiture of such utensils, but of two hundred pounds, to be paid by the person who shall offend in this manner; and"
"It was allowed to expire with the end of the session of parliament which followed the th March."
"During this short period, its only effect must have been, by encouraging the exportation of the surplus produce of every year, and thereby hindering the abundance of one year from compensating the scarcity of another, to raise the price in the home market."
"In the former situation, we are likely to find the universities filled with the most eminent men of letters that are to be found in the country."
"It would, therefore, be much more proper to be established as a perpetual and unalterable regulation, or as what is called a fundamental law of the commonwealth, than any tax which was always to be levied according to a certain valuation."
"The classical school proper, that is to say; since it is the attempt to build a bridge on the part of the neoclassical school which has led to the worst muddles of all."
"The duties upon the distillery, and the greater part of the duties of customs, in proportion to the numbers of people in the respective countries, produce less in Scotland than in England, not only on account of the smaller consumption of the taxed commodities, but of the much greater facility of smuggling."
"The sugar and rum which the West India merchants purchase in those colonies upon their own account, are not equal in value to the goods which they annually sell there."
"Free Trade denied the existence of factors which appeared to be obvious, and was doomed to be discredited in the eyes of the man in the street as soon as laissez faire could no longer hold the minds of men enchained in its ideology."
"The price of cow hides, as stated in the above account, is nearly in the common proportion to that of ox hides."
"Of the Motives for Establishing New Colonies."
"In those rice countries therefore, where rice is the common and favourite vegetable food of the people, and where the cultivators are chiefly maintained with it, a greater share of this greater surplus should belong to the landlord than in corn countries."
"The produce of their labour, therefore, frequently makes no figure in those public registers, of which the records are sometimes published with so much parade, and from which our merchants and manufacturers would often vainly pretend to announce the prosperity or declension of the greatest empires."
"The cost of this is charged in user cost, in so far as it is not made good pari passu with the act of using it."
"They set themselves, therefore, to expose the many errors of that translation, which the Roman catholic clergy were thus put under the necessity of defending or explaining."
"The consideration of his own private profit is the sole motive which determines the owner of any capital to employ it either in agriculture, in manufactures, or in some particular branch of the wholesale or retail trade."
"It was over and above, therefore, what the circulation of the country could easily absorb and employ, and upon that account, immediately returned upon the banks, in order to be exchanged for gold and silver, which they were to find as they could."
"The slightest degree of knowledge and application will enable him to do this, without exposing himself to contempt or derision, by saying any thing that is really foolish, absurd, or ridiculous."
"the concept of income proper, which is the concept relevant to decisions concerning current production and is quite unambiguous."
"It was thus that the Roman catholic clergy called upon the civil magistrate to persecute the protestants, and the church of England to persecute the dissenters; and that in general every religious sect, when it has once enjoyed, for a century or two, the security of a legal establishment, has found itself incapable of making any vigorous defence against any new sect which chose to attack its doctrine or discipline."
"The utility of the wage when a given volume of labour is employed is equal to the marginal disutility of that amount of employment."
"Those officers, it is pretended, though in general, perhaps, they do their duty fully as well as those of the customs; yet, as that duty obliges them to be frequently very troublesome to some of their neighbours, commonly contract a certain hardness of character, which the others frequently have not."
"Gold, on the contrary, is almost always found virgin."
"The taste for some sort of pageantry, for splendid buildings, at least, and other public ornaments, frequently prevails as much in the apparently sober senate house of a little republic, as in the dissipated court of the greatest king."
"The more ancient manufacture of Lucca was likewise carried on with foreign materials."
"This policy, therefore, discourages agriculture in two different ways; first, by sinking the real value of its produce, and thereby lowering the rate of its profits; and, secondly, by raising the rate of profit in all other employments."
"The increase in the quantity of useful labour actually employed within any society must depend altogether upon the increase of the capital which employs it; and the increase of that capital, again, must be exactly equal to the amount of the savings from the revenue, either of the particular persons who manage and direct the employment of that capital, or of some other persons, who lend it to them."
"In others, it is expected that the student should have previously acquired, at least, the rudiments of one or both of those languages, of which the study continues to make everywhere a very considerable part of university education."
"The Athenians sent Carneades the academic, and Diogenes the stoic, upon a solemn embassy to Rome; and though their city had then declined from its former grandeur, it was still an independent and considerable republic."
"The act of navigation, it is true, lays no burden upon foreign ships that come to export the produce of British industry."
"If the landlord were to forego his whole rent, the labourers would not be in the least benefited."
"It is indeed not unlikely that the individual entrepreneur, seeing his own costs reduced, will overlook at the outset the repercussions on the demand for his product and will act on the assumption that he will be able to sell at a profit a larger output than before."
"At any rate I am grateful to the Oriental Economist for making it possible for me to approach Japanese readers without the extra handicap of a foreign language."
"I understand this to be the number whom he taught at one time, or who attended what we would call one course of lectures; a number which will not appear extraordinary from so great a city to so famous a teacher, who taught, too, what was at that time the most fashionable of all sciences, rhetoric."
"In the canton of Lucern, the tax upon the sale of land is not universal, and takes place only in certain districts."
"and I think the only one of the disadvantages of a low value of silver in a country, proceeding from a forced abundance, has been ably explained by Dr. Smith."
"This suggests a marginal propensity to consume not exceeding to per cent<U+F8E7>a figure quite plausible for the boom, but surprisingly, and, in my judgment, improbably low for the slump."
"A regulation which obliges all those of the same trade in a particular town to enter their names and places of abode in a public register, facilitates such assemblies."
"One is advantageous to all classes, for all classes are consumers; the other is beneficial only to producers; they gain more, but every thing remains at its former price."
"There may be good policy in retaliations of this kind, when there is a probability that they will procure the repeal of the high duties or prohibitions complained of."
"Landlords and farmers, besides, two of the largest classes of masters, have another reason for being pleased with dear years."
"Their competition raises the wages of labour, and sinks the profits of stock."
"It was only the unique intellectual tenacity of laissez faire that for a time overcame the beliefs of the 'natural man' on this point."
"But by the same law, a bounty of."
"The situation of all the three is extremely advantageous, and naturally fits them to be the entrepots of a great part of the goods destined for the consumption of distant places."
"If, on the contrary, the effect is to produce an expectation of a further fall, the reaction on the marginal efficiency of capital may offset the decline in the rate of interest."
"They invented, therefore, another method of issuing their promissory notes; by granting what they call cash accounts, that is, by giving credit, to the extent of a certain sum (two or three thousand pounds for example), to any individual who could procure two persons of undoubted credit and good landed estate to become surety for him, that whatever money should be advanced to him, within the sum for which the credit had been given, should be repaid upon demand, together with the legal interest."
"If a moderate capital were sufficient, the great utility of the undertaking would not be a sufficient reason for establishing a joint stock company; because, in this case, the demand for what it was to produce, would readily and easily be supplied by private adventurers."
"Instead, therefore, of the money wages of labour falling, they would rise; but they would not rise sufficiently to enable the labourer to purchase as many comforts and necessaries as he did before the rise in the price of those commodities."
"A bounty on the production of corn then, would produce no real effect on the annual produce of the land and labour of the country, although it would make corn relatively cheap, and manufactures relatively dear."
"But the penalties of smuggling must arise in proportion to the temptation."
"Political economy, considered as a branch of the science of a statesman or legislator, proposes two distinct objects; first, to provide a plentiful revenue or subsistence for the people, or, more properly, to enable them to provide such a revenue or subsistence for themselves; and, secondly, to supply the state or commonwealth with a revenue sufficient for the public services."
"But avarice and ambition in the rich, in the poor the hatred of labour and the love of present ease and enjoyment, are the passions which prompt to invade property; passions much more steady in their operation, and much more universal in their influence."
"per yard, unaffected first by the fall, and then by the rise in the value of money; whilst hats, which had risen from."
"It is his interest to raise the price of his corn as high as the real scarcity of the season requires, and it can never be his interest to raise it higher."
"When the Scotch parliament was no longer to be assembled in it, when it ceased to be the necessary residence of the principal nobility and gentry of Scotland, it became a city of some trade and industry."
"above), though they are, nevertheless, very precarious."
"The acuteness and the peculiarity of our contemporary problem arises, therefore, out of the possibility that the average rate of interest which will allow a reasonable average level of employment is one so unacceptable to wealth owners that it cannot be readily established merely by manipulating the quantity of money."
"They earn but a very scanty subsistence, who endeavour to get their livelihood by either of those trades."
"It adds nothing to the value of the sum total of the rude produce of the land."
"If the prodigality of some were not compensated by the frugality of others, the conduct of every prodigal, by feeding the idle with the bread of the industrious, would tend not only to beggar himself, but to impoverish his country."
"It is not always made clear whether the income velocity of money is defined as the ratio of to or as the ratio of to."
"During the minority of the proprietor, the rent, together with the management of his lands, fell into the hands of his immediate superior; and, consequently, those of all great proprietors into the hands of the king, who was charged with the maintenance and education of the pupil, and who, from his authority as guardian, was supposed to have a right of disposing of him in marriage, provided it was in a manner not unsuitable to his rank."
"The different masses of corn, which, in different years, must supply the consumption of the world, will always be nearly in proportion to the respective produce of those different years."
"I say all this, partly to explain and partly to excuse, myself to French readers."
"If a tax, however burdensome it may be, falls on revenue, and not on capital, it does not diminish demand, it only alters the nature of it."
"that, if marginal prime cost is equal to marginal wagecost, non wage earners' incomes will be altered, when money wages are reduced, in the same proportion as wage earners', on the ground that this is only valid, if the quantity of employment remains unaltered<U+F8E7>which is the very point under discussion."
"This is what we may comprehend, if we consider that every man's power of consuming, whether productively or not, is limited by his income."
"The state of confidence, as they term it, is a matter to which practical men always pay the closest and most anxious attention."
", more would have been used; if it had been percent."
"The subscription into the South sea fund, of the short and long annuities, increased the capital of the public debt; so that, on the st of December it amounted to."
"For if a man is enjoying a windfall increment in the value of his capital, it is natural that his motives towards current spending should be strengthened, even though in terms of income his capital is worth no more than before; and weakened if he is suffering capital losses."
"It is this opinion which has made Mr. Buchanan maintain that wages are not influenced by a rise or fall in the price of provisions, but solely by the demand and supply of labour; and that a tax on the wages of labour would not raise wages, because it would not alter the proportion of the demand of labourers to the supply."
"Some of the little Italian states which are situated upon the Po, and the rivers which run into it, derive some revenue from duties of this kind, which are paid altogether by foreigners, and which, perhaps, are the only duties that one state can impose upon the subjects of another, without obstruction in any respect, the industry or commerce of its own."
"The demand for servants increases, while the number of those who offer to supply that demand diminishes."
"They fall heaviest upon the landlords, who always pay in a double capacity; in that of landlords, by the reduction, of their rent; and in that of rich consumers, by the increase of their expense."
"Adam Smith informs us, that from the th of Henry., to st of James I., percent."
"Nor is its physical productivity less."
"Towards the end of his reign, his son Lewis, known afterwards by the name of Lewis the Fat, consulted, according to Father Daniel, with the bishops of the royal demesnes, concerning the most proper means of restraining the violence of the great lords."
"In a second duty of twenty five percent."
"they would have gained the whole bounty of."
"If important classes are to have their remuneration fixed in terms of money in any case, social justice and social expediency are best served if the remunerations of all factors are somewhat inflexible in terms of money."
"One and twenty pence halfpenny sterling, however, we are told by Ulloa, was, not many years ago, at Buenos Ayres, the price of an ox chosen from a herd of three or four hundred."
"Digression concerning the Corn Trade and Corn Laws."
"If so, we shall have constant labour costs (in terms of the wage unit) when employment increases."
"The price, both of the great and small cattle which are fed on improved and cultivated land, must be sufficient to pay the rent which the landlord, and"
"Rouen is necessarily the entrepot of almost all the goods which are brought either from foreign countries, or from the maritime provinces of France, for the consumption of the great city of Paris."
"That there should be such a thing as a market value for output is, at the same time, a necessary condition for money income to possess a definite value and a sufficient condition for the aggregate amount which saving individuals decide to save to be equal to the aggregate amount which investing individuals decide to invest."
", a tax of two percent."
"In countries where the rigour of the law suffers no poachers, the licensed hunter is not in a much better condition."
"Our variance consists in this: They contend, that the equality of profits will be brought about by the general rise of profits; and I am of opinion, that the profits of the favoured trade will speedily subside to the general level."
"Three pounds seventeen shillings and tenpence halfpenny an ounce, therefore, is said to be the mint price of gold in England, or the quantity of gold coin which the mint gives in return for standard gold bullion."
"There was a third event which occurred in the course of the same period, and which, though it could not occasion any scarcity of corn, nor, perhaps, any augmentation in the real quantity of silver which was usually paid for it, must necessarily have occasioned some augmentation in the nominal sum."
"Assuming that the State applies the proceeds of these duties to its ordinary outgoings so that taxes on incomes and consumption are correspondingly reduced or avoided, it is, of course, true that a fiscal policy of heavy death duties has the effect of increasing the community's propensity to consume."
"Its ultimate object, however, it pretends, is always the same, to enrich the country by an advantageous balance of trade."
"It was reckoned a piece of magnificence in Thomas Becket, that he strewed the floor of his hall with clean hay or rushes in the season, in order that the knights and squires, who could not get seats, might not spoil their fine clothes when they sat down on the floor to eat their dinner."
"It is in this manner that the capital of Great Britain, one may justly say, has partly been drawn and partly been driven from the greater part of the different branches of trade of which she has not the monopoly; from the trade of Europe, in particular, and from that of the countries which lie round the Mediterranean sea."
"But if, as the wages of labour fall, the profits of stock rise, and they be together always of the same value, no fall of wages can raise rent, for it will neither diminish the portion, nor the value of the portion of the produce which will be allotted to the farmer and labourer together, and therefore will not leave a larger portion, nor a larger value for the landlord."
"The silk, perhaps, is the manufacture which would suffer the most by this freedom of trade, and after it the linen, though the latter much less than the former."
"The rent of land and the profits of stock are everywhere, therefore, the principal sources from which unproductive hands derive their subsistence."
"But the whole drugs which the best employed apothecary in a large market town, will sell in a year, may not perhaps cost him above thirty or forty pounds."
"If the clothier, the hatter, the shoemaker, andc."
"The policy of ancient Egypt, too, and that of the Gentoo government of Indostan, seem to have favoured agriculture more than all other employments."
"The first is the invention of writing, which alone gives human nature the power of transmitting, without alteration, its laws, its contracts, its annals, and its discoveries."
"In another part of Mr. Malthus's inquiry he observes, that the immediate cause of rent is obviously the excess of price above the cost of production at which raw produce sells in the market, and in another place he says, that the causes of the high price of raw produce may be stated to be three:"
"I shall, in the third place, endeavour to explain all the different circumstances which regulate this proportion."
"If loss in the value of the equipment could only occur in this way, supplementary cost would be zero."
"They have rejected, therefore, the proposal of being taxed by parliamentary requisition, and, like other ambitious and high spirited men, have rather chosen to draw the sword in defence of their own importance."
"Such manufactures, therefore, are the offspring of foreign commerce; and such seem to have been the ancient manufactures of silks, velvets, and brocades, which flourished in Lucca during the thirteenth century."
"It is so with respect to the interest for money; it is not regulated by the rate at which the Bank will lend, whether it be or percent., but by the rate of profits, which can be made by the employment of capital, and which is totally independent of the quantity, or of the value of money."
"I called 'the state of bearishness', it is by no means the same thing."
"Having now defined both income and consumption, the definition of saving, which is the excess of income over consumption, naturally follows."
"Its object is, in all cases, to maintain the authority of the master, and, whether he neglects or performs his duty, to oblige the students in all cases to behave to him as if he performed it with the greatest diligence and ability."
"in value, I should be enabled to save as effectually as if my revenue had been raised percent.; but in one case the rate of profits is stationary, in the other it is raised percent."
"Some cloths, we are told by Pliny Plin."
"Hence, if and continue to fall, a point comes at which it is not profitable to produce any of the commodities, unless the cost of production at some future date is expected to rise above the present cost by an amount which will cover the cost of carrying a stock produced now to the date of the prospective higher price."
"If, as I before observed, each man had to make his own loan, and contribute his full proportion to the exigencies of the state, as soon as the war ceased, taxation would cease, and we should immediately fall into a natural state of prices."
"A poor country, as it cannot afford to buy more, so it can as little afford to pay dearer for gold and silver than a rich one; and the value of those metals, therefore, is not likely to be higher in the former than in the latter."
"a tax of one percent."
"upon the whole price of the sale."
"After food, clothing and lodging are the two great wants of mankind."
"Mr. Malthus then proceeds to shew, that demand and high price will as effectually encourage the production of raw produce, as the demand and high price of any other commodity will encourage its production."
"Both metals sunk in their real value, or in the quantity of labour which they could purchase; but silver sunk more than gold."
", the fisherman must sell his goods for. ."
"Even though the world in general were improving, yet if, in the course of its improvements, new mines should be discovered, much more fertile than any which had been known before, though the demand for silver would necessarily increase, yet the supply might increase in so much a greater proportion, that the real price of that metal might gradually fall; that is, any given quantity, a pound weight of it, for example, might gradually purchase or command a smaller and a smaller quantity of labour, or exchange for a smaller and a smaller quantity of corn, the principal part of the subsistence of the labourer."
"He will also have spent a certain sum, designated by on purchasing finished output from other entrepreneurs."
"In Japan, it is said to be as one to eight."
"In his capacity as a producer deciding whether or not to use the equipment, prime cost and gross profit, as defined above, are the significant concepts."
"Though the success of a particular day's fishing maybe a very uncertain matter, yet the local situation of the country being supposed, the general efficacy of industry in bringing a certain quantity of fish to market, taking the course of a year, or of several years together, it may, perhaps, be thought is certain enough; and it, no doubt, is so."
"Adam Smith, in his observations on colonial trade, has shewn, most satisfactorily, the advantages of a free trade, and the injustice suffered by colonies, in being prevented by their mother countries, from selling their produce at the dearest market, and buying their manufactures and stores at the cheapest."
"The unfunded debt has been stated at."
"It is of this fallacy that it is most difficult to disabuse men's minds."
"To determine the quantity of employment, Professor Pigou then combines with his 'real demand for labour', a supply function for labour."
"the tax, however, bearing equally on both lands will be."
"It would be necessary that almost every man should be a man of business, or engage in some sort of trade."
"The admiration of this whole sect for their master, who was himself a man of the greatest modesty and simplicity, is not inferior to that of any of the ancient philosophers for the founders of their respective systems. '"
"In that year, each barrel of sea sticks cost government, in bounties alone,.; each barrel of merchantable herrings."
"This then is a further proof, that no particular disadvantage arises from taxes on necessaries, on account of their raising wages and lowering the rate of profits."
"Nobody buys it but in order to sell it again; and with regard to it there is, in ordinary cases, no last purchaser or consumer."
"upon the importation of wood from America."
"In contradiction to the opinion of Adam Smith,."
"and France is a much richer country than North America; though, on account of the more unequal distribution of riches, there is much more poverty and beggary in the one country than in the other."
"The schedule of the marginal efficiency of capital depends, however, partly on the given factors and partly on the prospective yield of capital assets of different kinds; whilst the rate of interest depends partly on the state of liquidity preference (i.e. on the liquidity function) and partly on the quantity of money measured in terms of wage units."
"In this latter objection I cannot agree with."
"If the rent paid by the farmer to his landlord, and the wages to his labourers, be percent."
"But even so, it will still be possible for communal saving through the agency of the State to be maintained at a level which will allow the growth of capital up to the point where it ceases to be scarce."
"If more be not paid by the people, than what is received by Government, the rich consumer will only pay his equitable share; if more is paid, Adam Smith should have stated by whom it is received."
"You undoubtedly will increase the riches of this individual, but inasmuch as the farmer must sell a part of his corn, the shoemaker a part of his shoes, and all men give up a portion of their possessions for the sole purpose of supplying themselves with water, which they before had for nothing, they are poorer by the whole quantity of commodities which they are obliged to devote to this purpose, and the proprietor of water is benefited precisely by the amount of their loss."
"The later stages of the boom are characterised by optimistic expectations as to the future yield of capitalgoods sufficiently strong to offset their growing abundance and their rising costs of production and, probably, a rise in the rate of interest also."
"There is, upon this account, little variety in the greater part of their works."
"We trust, with perfect security, that the freedom of trade, without any attention of government, will always supply us with the wine which we have occasion for; and we may trust, with equal security, that it will always supply us with all the gold and silver which we can afford to purchase or to employ, either in circulating our commodities or in other uses."
"It could only have erected this bank into a sort of general loan office for the whole country."
"If, before it came to the person who presents it to the acceptor for payment, it had passed through the hands of several other persons, who had successively advanced to one another the contents of it, either in money or goods, and who, to express that each of them had in his turn received those contents, had all of them in their order indorsed, that is, written their names upon the back of the bill; each indorser becomes in his turn liable to the owner of the bill for those contents, and, if he fails to pay, he becomes too, from that moment, a bankrupt"
"In the latter case, employment may be less variable but liable to settle down at a low level and to prove recalcitrant to any but the most drastic remedies."
"If potatoes were to become the common food of the people, there would be a long interval during which the landlords would suffer an enormous deduction of rent."
"The surplus part of them, therefore, must be sent abroad, and exchanged for something for which there is a demand at home."
"Of the leading writers of half a century later, Child, the omnipotent leader of the East India Company and its most skilful advocate, discussed the question of how far the legal maximum rate of interest, which he emphatically demanded, would result in drawing 'the money' of the Dutch away from England."
"If the produce even of their own islands was much greater than what suited their market, the natives, they suspect, might find means to convey some part of it to other nations; and the best way, they imagine, to secure their own monopoly, is to take care that no more shall grow than what they themselves carry to market."
"; upon that of soap, to about twenty or five and twenty percent.; and upon that of candles to about fourteen or fifteen percent.; taxes which, though lighter than that upon salt, are still very heavy."
"inasmuch as it encouraged marriage, and supported children, it produced the effect of increasing the supply of labour."
"Say's error in the above passage lies in supposing that because the value of the produce of one of these two farms, after re instating the capital, is greater than the value of the produce of the other, on that account the net income of the cultivators will differ by the same amount."
