"x"
"Now, as the quantity produced must, in the main, be regulated by the speed of the machinery, it must be the interest of the mill owner to drive it at the utmost rate of speed consistent with these following conditions, viz."
"The majority of the men themselves cannot."
"Hence they are full of the most valuable materials for the enlightenment of the working class."
"The capitalist, formerly a buyer, now returns to market as a seller, of commodities."
"In of the houses visited, only man that earned."
"Very well, and by way of reward he is now in possession of good yarn instead of a bad conscience; and as for playing the part of a miser, it would never do for him to relapse into such bad ways as that; we have seen before to what results such asceticism leads."
"The connection between the paid and the unpaid labour is destroyed."
"Modern methods of drawing up balance sheets not only make it possible to conceal doubtful undertakings from the average shareholder, but also allow the people most concerned to escape the consequence of unsuccessful speculation by selling their shares in time while the private dealer risks his own skin. '"
"says: It would be unjust to the larger employers that their factories should be placed under regulation, while the hours of labour in the smaller places in their own branch of business were under no legislative restriction."
"He will, ceteris paribus, labour days a week as before, for himself, for his lord, who thenceforth becomes a wages paying capitalist."
"Large scale machine industry completely squeezes out the small enterprises."
"In the time of Mirabeau, the lion of the Revolution, the great manufactories were still called manufactures reunies, workshops thrown into one, as we speak of field thrown into one."
"Midchen den Nymphen befohlen,"
"Wherever I refer to the composition of capital, without further qualification, its organic composition is always understood."
"As William Petty puts it, labour is its father and the earth its mother."
"On the other hand, the rate of surplus value alone would not give us the extent of the working day."
", must, as exchange values, be replaceable by each other, or equal to each other."
"The uncertainty and instability to which machinery subjects the employment, and consequently the conditions of existence, of the operatives become normal, owing to these periodic changes of the industrial cycle."
"On the one hand, the bourgeois ideologists, and particularly the petty bourgeois ideologists, compelled by the pressure of indisputable historical facts to admit that the state only exists where there are class antagonisms and the class struggle, 'correct' Marx in a way that makes it appear that the state is an organ for the conciliation of classes."
"He has explained the apparent relation between objects, such as diamonds and pearls, in which relation they appear as exchange values, and disclosed the true relation hidden behind the appearances, namely, their relation to each other as mere expressions of human labour."
"persons Roberts Court."
"he may do great damage to the whole."
"From the economic standpoint this explanation is worth nothing, because the historical element is wanting."
"The subject of labour is in this case not a product of previous labour, but is furnished by Nature gratis, as in the case of metals, minerals, coal, stone, andc."
"By nature unfitted to make anything independently, the manufacturing labourer develops productive activity as a mere appendage of the capitalist's workshop."
"It should be added that in our literature the postulate of the theory that capitalism requires a free, landless worker, is often understood in too stereotyped a manner."
"The present day state' is therefore a fiction. '"
"It is different in the Prusso German Empire from what it is in Switzerland, it is different in England from what it is in the United States. '"
"The European states tore one another to pieces about the patent of this invention, and, once entered into the service of the surplus value makers, did not merely lay under contribution in the pursuit of this purpose their own people, indirectly through protective duties, directly through export premiums."
"For instance, Ricardo declares that he agrees with Destutt de Tracy in this proposition: As it is certain that our physical and moral faculties are alone our original riches, the employment of those faculties, labour of some kind, is our only original treasure, and it is always from this employment that all those things are created which we call riches."
"The two parties to this discussion are agreed only on one point and that is, that as yet there are neither firm principles nor a concrete aim in the new activities of the big banks.'"
"Are you not ashamed to deny us the right to invite you to take a better road!"
"This is no longer the old type of free competition between manufacturers, scattered and out of touch with one another, and producing for an unknown market."
"this is the most usual, the most widespread phenomenon to be met with in present day official Social Democratic literature on Marxism."
"The former receives the value of his commodity, whose use value labour is thereby alienated to the buyer."
"Hence there is immanent in capital an inclination and constant tendency, to heighten the productiveness of labour, in order to cheapen commodities, and by such cheapening to cheapen the labourer himself."
"The estates of the church were to a large extent given away to rapacious royal favourites, or sold at a nominal price to speculating farmers and citizens, who drove out, en masse, the hereditary sub tenants and threw their holdings into one."
"il deviant donc plus clair que les rapports de production dans lesquels se meut la bourgeoisie"
"(General Electric Company), which grew up in this way, controls to companies (through share holdings), and a total capital of approximately marks."
"Socialism simplifies the functions of 'state' administration; it enables the methods of 'official administration' to be thrown aside and the whole business to be reduced to a matter of organizing the proletarians (as the ruling class), which hires 'workmen and managers' in the name of the whole of society."
"It is required against both"
"The nature of such wants, whether, for instance, they spring from the stomach or from fancy, makes no difference."
"Handicraft shall mean any manual labour exercised by way of trade, or for purposes of gain in, or incidental to, the making any article or part of an article, or in, or incidental to, the altering, repairing, ornamenting, finishing, or otherwise adapting for sale any article."
"Let us now examine the product of this prolonged process."
"Say in the vulgarisation of Adam Smith."
"If we compare the years from to in three sets of four consecutive years each, the rate of augmentation of the income increases constantly."
"In Great Britain (including Ireland), in there were branches of banks."
"Kautsky has not in the least understood the difference between bourgeois parliamentarism, which combines democracy (not for the people) with bureaucracy (against the people), and proletarian democracy, which will take immediate steps to cut bureaucracy down to the roots, and which will be able to carry out these measures to the end, to the complete abolition of bureaucracy, to the introduction of complete democracy for the people."
"This, on the average, is one issue per city per half year."
"The small and nimble fingers of little children being by very far the most in request, the custom instantly sprang up of procuring apprentices from the different parish workhouses of London, Birmingham, and elsewhere."
"In this case he produces no surplus value for the buyer of his labour, the. are not transformed into capital, the basis of capitalist production vanishes."
"We know, however, that, the values of commodities remaining constant, their prices vary with the value of gold (the material of money), rising in proportion as it falls, and falling in proportion as it rises."
"But the enormous importance which Marxism quite justly attaches to conscious revolutionary work causes it in practice, owing to its doctrinaire view of tactics, to belittle the significance of the objective or the spontaneous element of development.'"
"The employment of these different sorts of labour power, an employment which is, in its turn, made necessary by the mode of production, makes a great difference in the cost of maintaining the family of the labourer, and in the value of the labour power of the adult male."
"It the proletariat can no longer talk of premature revolution.'"
"that we have already met with, namely, the intensification of labour, develops into great importance."
"Beyond this limit the working time is over time, and is, taking the hour as unit measure, paid better extra pay, although often in a proportion ridiculously small."
"Those small and extremely ancient Indian communities, some of which have continued down to this day, are based on possession in common of the land, on the blending of agriculture and handicrafts, and on an unalterable division of labour, which serves, whenever a new community is started, as a plan and scheme ready cut and dried."
"The cost of weaving a piece of such cloth had already soon after fallen from. ."
"It becomes a question of life and death for society to adapt the mode of production to the normal functioning of this law."
"But, while thus incorporating labour generally, that is value, it is by the particular form alone of the labour, by the spinning, the weaving and the forging respectively, that the means of production, the cotton and spindle, the yarn and loom, and."
"But from this capitalist democracy inevitably narrow, tacitly repelling the poor, and therefore hypocritical and false to the core development does not proceed simply, smoothly and directly to 'greater and greater democracy,' as the liberal professors and petty bourgeois opportunists would have us believe."
"All that is superfluous!"
"A greater quantity of labour, done by the same number of labourers as before, thus increases the fertility, without requiring any new advance in the instruments of labour."
"Not content with this treachery, the great Liberal party allowed the English judges, ever complaisant in the service of the ruling classes, to dig up again the earlier laws against conspiracy, and to apply them to coalitions of labourers."
"By a Suffolk Gentleman."
"In general, it may be said that evasiveness on the question of the relation of the proletarian revolution to the state an evasiveness which was to the advantage of opportunism and fostered it resulted in the distortion of Marxism and in its complete vulgarization."
"That, at the first returning demand for labour, there would be a deficiency."
"In the old capitalist countries this 'banking network' is still more close."
"Nevertheless the position of this detail labourer who, though he works at home, does so for a capitalist (manufacturer, tablisseur), is very different from that of the independent artificer, who works for his own customers."
"Several conflicts and displacements of influence have already occurred over this matter, which foreshadow more terrible outbreaks in the near future."
"Co operation ever constitutes the fundamental form of the capitalist mode of production, nevertheless the elementary form of co operation continues to subsist as a particular form of capitalist production side by side with the more developed forms of that mode of production."
"In a, given society the limit would be reached only when the entire social capital was united in the hands of either a single capitalist or a single capitalist company."
"Economy in the means of production, first systematically carried out in the factory system, and there, from the very beginning, coincident with the most reckless squandering of labour power, and robbery of the conditions normally requisite for labour"
"These formulae, supplementary the one to the other, are rigorously definite and correct."
"By thus acting on the external world and changing it, he at the same time changes his own nature."
"Moreover, although our weaver's labour may be a recognised branch of the social division of labour, yet that fact is by no means sufficient to guarantee the utility of his yards of linen."
"And lastly, from the moment that men in any way work for one another, their labour assumes a social form."
"We see then that that which determines the magnitude of the value of any article is the amount of labour socially necessary, or the labour time socially necessary for its production."
"enabled to perfect himself by practice in one point, became."
"the gross; in they were supplied by manufacture at, and today the factory system supplies them to the trade at from."
", that is to say, if we give expression to the converse relation already implied in the series, we get,."
"And had the Commune lasted, all traces of the state in it would have 'withered away' of themselves; it would not have been necessary for it to 'abolish' the institutions of the state; they would have ceased to function in proportion as they ceased to have anything to do. '"
"(how much is this 'idea' worth if one is afraid to teach the workers the concrete lessons of revolution?), or says, 'revolutionary idealism before everything,' or declares that the English workers are now 'little more than petty bourgeois.'"
"In the Deutsche Bank, a new enterprise, had a capital of only marks, while that of the Disconto was as much as marks."
"And this the apologist calls a compensation for the misery, the sufferings, the possible death of the displaced labourers during the transition period that banishes them into the industrial reserve army!"
"Kautsky loses sight of the process of revolution,' said Pannekoek."
"Lamentable indeed, must be the case, when, notwithstanding all that is evident with regard to the quality of the present accommodation, it is the common conclusion of competent observers that even the general badness of dwellings is an evil infinitely less urgent than their mere numerical insufficiency."
"I make the following remark on this point"
"though he does not always consider what he says outside his business, yet in his business he knows what he is about."
"It may be said without fear of error that of this argument of Engels, which is so singularly rich in ideas, only one point has become an integral part of socialist thought among modern Socialist Parties, namely, that according to Marx the state 'withers away' as distinct from the anarchist doctrine of the 'abolition of the state.'"
"The minimum of variable capital is the cost price of a single labour power, employed the whole year through, day in, day out, for the production of surplusvalue."
"Scotland Ireland United Kingdom"
"In Russia, the progressive character of capitalism in this respect is particularly marked, for in Russia the personal dependence of the producer existed (and partly continues to exist to the present day) not only in agriculture but also in the manufacturing industries ('factories' employing serf labor), in the mining industry, in the fishing industry, etc."
"But these germs can develop only under the next form of rent, under money rent, which is a mere change of form of rent in kind."
"Hitherto there is no such book."
"his mowers reapers, andc."
"Again, since the value of the yarn produced in hours, is equal to the sum of the values of his wages and of your net profit, the measure of the value of this yarn must be working hours, of which hours measure the value of the yarn produced in the last hour but one, and the value of the yarn produced in the last hour."
"But while upsetting the naturally grown conditions for the maintenance of that circulation of matter, it imperiously calls for its restoration as a system, as a regulating law of social production, and under a form appropriate to the full development of the human race."
"Do not restrict yourselves to indisputable, but too general, statements about the usefulness of local newspapers generally;"
"Hence they immediately try to place every capable workingman in such conditions as will enable him to develop and apply his abilities to the utmost: he is made a professional agitator, he is encouraged to widen the field of his activity, to spread it from one factory to the whole of his trade, from one locality to the whole country."
"It also means that a movement that is starting in a young country can be successful only on the condition that it assimilates the experience of other countries."
"Lond.,.) Capital, with compound interest on every portion of capital saved, is so all engrossing that all the wealth in the world from which income is derived, has long ago become the interest on capital."
"The Proximate Effects of Machinery on the Workman."
"For the rest England figures here in the foreground because she is the classic representative of capitalist production, and she alone has a continuous set of official ctatistics of the thin we are considerinR. Suggestions, andc."
"With its accumulation, therefore, there kept pace, on the whole, a corresponding growth in the demand for labour."
"Increase or diminution in surplus value is always consequent on, and never the cause of, the corresponding diminution or increase in the value of labour power."
"This family received relief from the workhouse, and it furnished them with just one scanty meal per day."
"Such an equalisation can only be something foreign to their real nature, consequently only a makeshift for practical purposes."
"On the other hand, the extension of the working time produces, in its turn, a fall in the price of labour, and with this a fall in the day's or week's wages."
"In addition, it falls a prey to the destructive influence of natural forces."
"To be sure, the matter looks quite different if we consider capitalist production in the uninterrupted flow of its renewal, and if, in place of the individual capitalist and the individual worker, we view in their totality, the capitalist class and the working class confronting each other."
"Of this sum, were invested in Russia."
"Since exchange value is a definite social manner of expressing the amount of labour bestowed upon an object, Nature has no more to do with it, than it has in fixing the course of exchange."
"Engels' words regarding the 'withering away' of the state are so widely known, they are so often quoted, and they reveal the significance of the customary painting of Marxism to look like opportunism so clearly that we must deal with them in detail."
"Under this simple form."
"But, then, he tries to buy all commodities as cheaply as possible, and always accounts for his profit by simple cheating, by buying under, and selling over the value."
"Although machinery necessarily throws men out of work in those industries into which it is introduced, yet it may, notwithstanding this, bring about an increase of employment in other industries."
"If such an organization existed on a firm theoretical basis, and possessed a Social Democratic journal, we would have no reason to fear that the movement would be diverted from its path by the numerous 'outside' elements that are attracted to it."
"Its analysis, therefore, is our real difficulty."
"Their growing wealth, and the relatively diminished number of workmen required to produce the necessaries of life beget, simultaneously with the rise of new and luxurious wants, the means of satisfying those wants."
"The unceasing improvement of machinery, ever more rapidly developing, makes their livelihood more and more precarious; the collisions between individual workmen and individual bourgeois take more and more the character of collisions between two classes."
"But it is precisely at the present time, when the wave of spontaneous indignation is, as it were, washing over us, leaders and organizers of the movement, that a most irreconcilable struggle must be waged against all defense of sluggishness, against any legitimization of restriction in this matter, and it is particularly necessary to rouse in all those participating in the practical work, in all who are just thinking of taking it up, discontent with the primitive methods that prevail among us and an unshakable determination to get rid of them."
", in the matter of protection or free trade, only give rise to insignificant variations in the form of monopolies or in the moment of their appearance, and that the rise of monopolies, as the result of the concentration of production, is a general and fundamental law of the present stage of development of capitalism."
"The ownership of past unpaid labour is thenceforth the sole condition for the appropriation of living unpaid labour on a constantly increasing scale."
"The instrument of labour strikes down the labourer."
"The circulation of commodities is the starting point of capital."
"That equally applies to agricultural employments, does it not?"
"Some of the hands always work in the night, without any alternation of day and night work."
"With the very earliest development of the circulation of commodities, there is also developed the necessity, and the passionate desire, to hold fast the product of the first metamorphosis."
"here, too, he consistently applies materialist dialectics, the theory of development, and regards communism as something which develops out of capitalism."
"The currency of money is the constant and monotonous repetition of the same process."
"Gold and silver possess these properties by Nature."
"With the same object in view, we have produced detailed statistics which reveal the extent to which bank capital, etc., has developed, showing how the transformation of quantity into quality, of developed capitalism into imperialism, has expressed itself."
"As a result of this movement, day labour alone was successfully established in Wexford, Kilkenny, Clonmel, Waterford, andc."
"Not less than persons live there in single rooms."
"From to they earned the following dividends: percent, in the respective years,.e."
"For the rest, it requires but a slight acquaintance with the history of the Roman republic, for example, to be aware that its secret history is the history of its landed property."
"Another, at years old, sometimes made three hour shifts running, and, when has made two days and two nights running."
"When women and their children work at home, which now a days means in a hired room, often in a garret, the state of things is, if possible, still worse."
"The executive of the modern State is but a committee for managing the common affairs of the whole bourgeoisie."
"Thus, in capitalist society we have a democracy that is curtailed, wretched, false; a democracy only for the rich, for the minority."
"du me tat et profession tant l'une des bases"
"I allow that the workers are not a property, not the property of Lancashire and the masters; but they are the strength of both; they are the mental and trained power which cannot be."
"and as a justification of his tight to grant certificates, he added: 'At any rate, I am before my scholars.'"
"The Social Democrat's ideal should not be a trade union secretary, but a tribune of the people, able to react to every manifestation of tyranny and oppression, no matter where it takes place, no matter what stratum or class of the people it affects; he must be able to group all these manifestations into a single picture of police violence and capitalist exploitation; he must be able to take advantage of every petty event in order to explain his socialistic convictions and his Social Democratic demands to all, in order to explain to all and everyone the world historic significance of the struggle for the emancipation of the proletariat."
"But the intellectual desolation artificially produced by converting immature human beings into mere machines for the fabrication of surplus value, a state of mind clearly distinguishable from that natural ignorance which keeps the mind fallow without destroying its capacity for development, its natural fertility, this desolation finally compelled even the English Parliament to make elementary education a compulsory condition to the productive employment of children under years, in every industry subject to the Factory Acts."
"Here we have the machine, but only as an elementary factor of production by machinery."
"Money rent 'requires a considerable development of commerce, of city industries, of the production of commodities in general and also the circulation of money.'"
"Institutions already exist which have assumed as part of their task a certain organization of economic labor: the banks.'"
"The revolution effected by machinery in the juridical relations between the buyer and the seller of tabour power, causing the transaction as a whole to lose the appearance of a contract between free persons, afforded the English Parliament an excuse, founded on juridical principles, for the interference of the state with factories."
"We have seen that the rate of surplus value is represented by the following formulae: Surplus value (s) Surplus value Surplus labor I. == =="
"a part of the money previously given to it."
"Mr. Ellis, one of the firm of Messrs. John Brown and Co., steel and iron works, employing about men and boys, part of whose operations, namely, iron and heavier steel work, goes on night and day by relays, states that in the heavier steel work one or two boys are employed to a score or two men."
"Actually, it turned out that the German Social Democratic Party was much more moderate and opportunist than it appeared to be!"
"Doctor: Marry, all such as have takings of fearmes in their owne manurance cultivation at the old rent, for where they pay after the olde rate they sell after the newe that is, they paye for theire lande good cheape, and sell all things growing thereof deare."
"the relation of forces,' but for the purpose of overthrowing the bourgeoisie, destroying bourgeois parliamentarism, for a democratic republic after the type of the Commune, or a republic of Soviets of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies, for the revolutionary dictatorship of the proletariat."
"It is quite absurd to talk about an illegal newspaper catching the enemy"
"Hence it is absolutely necessary to shift the weight of the work somewhat from local work to national work."
"red handed, that is, if we mean it seriously and not merely as a metaphor."
"This is the essence of bureaucracy, and until the capitalists have been expropriated and the bourgeoisie overthrown, even proletarian officials will inevitably be 'bureaucratized' to some extent."
"The greater part of the yearly accruing surplus product, embezzled, because abstracted without return of an equivalent, from the English labourer, is thus used as capital, not in England, but in foreign countries."
"A simple geometrical illustration will make this clear."
"We shall start off again by praising Rabocheye Dyelo."
"Irish genius discovered an altogether new way of spiriting a poor people thousands of miles away from the scene of its misery."
"The doubling spindles, too, are no longer included in the spinning spindles (as was the case in the Returns of and ); further, in the case of woollen mills, the number of gigs is added, a distinction made between jute and hemp mills on the one hand and flax mills on the other, and finally stocking weaving is for the first time inserted in the report."
"the lessons of Marx, based on the study of the Commune, have been so completely forgotten that any criticism of parliamentarism, other than anarchist or reactionary criticism, is quite unintelligible to the present day 'Social Democrat' (read present day traitor to socialism)."
"In the first form the movement is brought about by the intervention of money, in the second by that of a commodity."
"Suppose that yards of cloth have been produced on power looms by fewer weavers than could weave yards by hand."
"Morton read before the Society of Arts"
"Whilst a large number of acres, that were formerly tilled, lie idle or are turned permanently into grass land, a great part of the waste land and peat bogs that were unused formerly, become of service for the extension of cattle breeding."
"which dealt with the breaking up of the elementary education committees by the police."
"The expropriation and eviction of a part of the agricultural population not only set free for industrial capital, the laborers, their means of subsistence, and material for labor; it also created the home market."
"Schilder writes: 'It may even be asserted, although it may sound paradoxical to some, that in the more or less discernible future the growth of the urban industrial population is more likely to be hindered by a shortage of raw materials for industry than by a shortage of food.'"
"But these arguments are simply an apology for imperialism, an attempt to embellish it, because they ignore the principal feature of modern capitalism: monopoly."
"Moreover, it considers it to be its duty to present this demand to the government, not on the basis of the economic struggle alone, but on the basis of all manifestations of public and political life."
"Coin and Symbols of Value Section Money."
"The fact, that in the particular form of production with which we are dealing, viz., the production of commodities, the specific social character of private labour carried on independently, consists in the equality of every kind of that labour, by virtue of its being human labour, which character, therefore, assumes in the product the form of value this fact appears to the producers, notwithstanding the discovery above referred to, to be just as real and final, as the fact, that, after the discovery by science of the component gases of air, the atmosphere itself remained unaltered."
"First, a commodity comes face to face with money; the latter is the form taken by the value of the former, and exists in all its hard reality, in the pocket of the buyer."
"First of all he ridicules the muddled ideas of the Proudhonists, who called themselves '"
"The capitalist can, therefore, live a more jolly life, and at the same time show more abstinence."
"Revolutionary democratic phrases to gull the Simple Simons; bureaucracy and red tape for the 'benefit' of the capitalists"
"Just as little does it concern us, for the moment, whether the additional capital is joined on to the original capital, or is separated from it to function independently; whether the same capitalist, who accumulated it, employs it, or whether he hands it over to another."
"A born leveller and a cynic, it is always ready to exchange not only soul, but body, with any and every other commodity, be the same more repulsive than Maritornes herself."
"The sanitary officers, the industrial inquiry commissioners, the factory inspectors, all harp, over and over again, upon the necessity for those cubic feet, and upon the impossibility of wringing them out of capital."
"Of these variations we shall consider those alone that have been the most important in the history of prices."
"The mercantilists lay special stress on the qualitative aspect of the expression of value, and consequently on the equivalent form of commodities, which attains its full perfection in money."
"(f) Weekly Rent. . . (g) Total Weekly wage after deduction of Rent. . ."
"In the same way with regard to money, every trace of a value relation disappears in the names pound, dollar, franc, ducat, andc."
"Every organ of sense is injured in an equal degree by artificial elevation of the temperature, by the dust laden atmosphere, by the deafening noise, not to mention danger to life and limb among the thickly crowded machinery, which, with the regularity of the seasons, issues its list of the killed and wounded in the industrial battle."
"In Russia, people like to sing the praises of our agrarian system for having preserved the village commune and the peasantry, etc., and contrast this to the Baltic system with its capitalist system of agriculture."
"One tendency is to make the ties with industry general; the other tendency is to make these ties durable and close."
"This form quickly disappears in England, to give the place to the farmer proper, who makes his own capital breed by employing wage laborers, and pays a part of the surplus product, in money or in kind, to the landlord as rent."
"The commodity is always in the hands of the seller; the money, as a means of purchase, always in the hands of the buyer."
"Before the rise of machinery, a manufacturer's evening expenditure at the public house where they all met, never exceeded sixpence for a glass of punch, and a penny for a screw of tobacco."
"Until this is done, we shall never be able to establish a single newspaper capable, to any degree, of serving the movement with all sided press agitation."
"Wages do not contribute, along with labour, to the production of commodities, no more than the price of tools contributes along with the tools themselves."
"qui porte dans ses bras tout un tier, peut aller partout exercer son industrie et trouver des moyens de subsister: l'autre (the manufacturing labourer)"
"it is rather a man's dress, and I believe in some cases, it drowns all sense of decency."
"A single violin player is his own conductor; an orchestra requires a separate one."
"By our assumption, the coat is worth twice as much as the linen."
"; ils ne travaillent point, avor nous dit, et ils ne peuvent me travailler;"
"Provided its net real income, its rent and profits, be the same, it is of no importance whether the nation consists of or of millions of inhabitants."
"Here we have, in the place of the isolated machine, a mechanical monster whose body fills whole factories, and whose demon power, at first veiled under the slow and measured motions of his giant limbs, at length breaks out into the fast and furious whirl of his countless working organs."
"At the head of these in importance, stands the self acting mule, because it opened up a new epoch in the automatic system."
"As a further pretty result of the credit given by the workmen to the capitalist, we may refer to the method current in many English coal mines, where the labourer is not paid till the end of the month, and in the meantime, receives sums on account from the capitalist, often in goods for which the miner is obliged to pay more than the market price (Truck system)."
"As soon as they get too old for such child's work, that is about at the latest, they are discharged from the printing establishments."
"This antagonism between the quantitative limits of money and its qualitative boundlessness, continually acts as a spur to the hoarder in his Sisyphus like labour of accumulating."
"this misconception you share with every ruling class that has preceded you."
"The factory inspectors soon found out by questioning the schoolmasters, that the factory children, although receiving only one half the education of the regular day scholars, yet learnt quite as much and often more."
"But without the leave, and behind the back, of our weaver, the old fashioned mode of weaving undergoes a change."
"worth of spindle, andc."
"This augmentation of surplus value is pocketed by him, whether his commodities belong or not to the class of necessary means of subsistence that participate in determining the general value of labour power."
"In a word, you will see that de facto Martynov reduces Social Democracy to the level of trade unionism, and he does this, of course, not because he does not desire the good of Social Democracy, but simply because he is a little too much in a hurry to make Plekhanov more profound, instead of taking the trouble to understand him."
", the market must become twice as extensive."
"Capital further developed into a coercive relation, which compels the workingclass to do more work than the narrow round of its own lifewants prescribes."
"The labourer consumes in a two told way."
"It is a retreat from Marx's precise, scientific analysis to Saint Simon's guesswork, the guesswork of a genius, but guesswork all the same."
"However strong the process of levelling the world, of levelling economic and living conditions in different countries may have been in the past decades as a result of the pressure of large scale industry, exchange and finance capital, great differences still remain; and even among the six powers we see, first, young capitalist powers (America, Germany, Japan) which progressed very rapidly; secondly, countries with an old capitalist development (France and Great Britain), which have made much slower progress of late than the previously mentioned countries, and thirdly, a country (Russia) which is economically most backward, in which modern capitalist imperialism is enmeshed, so to speak, in a thick web of pre capitalist relations."
"It went to the extreme length of directly opposing the brutally destructive tendency of Communism, and of proclaiming its supreme and impartial contempt of all class struggles."
"The Representation of the Components of the Value of the Product by Corresponding Proportional Parts of the Product itself"
"In the Baltic, things are called by their proper names, but in Russia the one horse agricultural laborer is combined with the wealthy peasant, an 'average' is struck and sentimental talk is indulged in about the 'commune spirit,' 'labor principles,' 'people's industry' and 'combining agriculture with industry.'."
"every kind of work that has to be done by the minders of the machines; in the place of the artificially produced differentiations of the detail workmen, step the natural differences of age and sex."
"They were ordinary men, not Cyclops."
"He is not, therefore, a proletarian."
"Thus the linen for instance, first of all changes its commodity form into its moneyform."
"In the year the Gaels were already replaced by sheep."
"Here, however, the analogy ceases."
"We now proceed to distinguish the co operation of a number of machines of one kind from a complex system of machinery."
"But you Communists would introduce community of women, screams the whole bourgeoisie in chorus."
"But the underlying factor of this interlocking, its very base, is the changing social relations of production."
"It cannot be prolonged beyond a certain point."
"He says, industrial capitalists make profits because they all sell for more than it has cost to produce."
"A mass of free proletarians was hurled on the labour market by the breaking up of the bands of feudal retainers, who, as Sir James Steuart well says, everywhere uselessly filled house and castle."
"It quite failed at that time of proof when put to the test, and again it will certainly fail should it have to be tried."
"Since the reform of the basis of imperialism is a deception, a pious 'wish,' since the bourgeois representatives of oppressed nations go no 'further' forward, the bourgeois representatives of the oppressing nation go 'further' backward, to servility towards imperialism, concealed by the cloak of 'science.'"
"The parish of Bradenham comprises acres; it numbered, in houses and a population of males and females."
"It must nestle everywhere, settle everywhere, establish connexions everywhere."
"Hence forms of social production that preceded the bourgeois form, are treated by the bourgeoisie in much the same way as the Fathers of the Church treated pre Christian religions."
"Most of the silver exported to China makes its way to India."
"In time wages, with few exceptions, the same wage holds for the same kind of work, whilst in piece wages, though the price of the working time is measured by a certain quantity of product, the day's or week's wage will vary with the individual differences of the labourers, of whom one supplies in a given time the minimum of product only, another the average, a third more than the average."
", nothing at all like 'catching them red handed.'"
"It was but quite recently struck out of the Penal Code."
"Such are the dialectics of living history."
"(Cherbuliez, Richesse ou"
"The predominance, in a society, of this form of exploitation excludes the capitalist mode of production; to which mode, however, this form may serve as a transition, as it did towards the close of the Middle Ages."
"With very few exceptions, all the so called Socialist and Communist publications that now circulate in Germany belong to thedomain of this foul and enervating literature."
"No one in the slightest degree acquainted with the state of the movement at that period could doubt that such a paper would have been fully approved of by the workers of the capital and the revolutionary intelligentsia and would have had a wide circulation."
"In their turn, the varying phases of the industrial cycle recruit the surplus population, and become one of the most energetic agents of its reproduction."
"The following table shows the distribution of the profits (with the exception of those of farmers) for the years and Table."
"It cannot be otherwise in a mode of production in which the labourer exists to satisfy the needs of self expansion of existing values, instead of, on the contrary, material wealth existing to satisfy the needs of development on the part of the labourer."
"But in presence of such shameful facts as are vouched for in the annexed reports those of Dr. Hunter, Dr. Stevens, andc."
"We have now to consider this labour under a very different aspect from that which it had during the labour process; there, we viewed it solely as that particular kind of human activity which changes cotton into yarn; there, the more the labour was suited to the work, the better the yarn, other circumstances remaining the same."
"The rate of surplus value being, the surplus value lies in the surplus or net product of lbs."
"bon! dignity of character."
"of yarn in the market, he must pay fifteen shillings for them."
"A most atrocious instance had been brought before the Court of King's Bench two years before, in which a number of these boys, apprenticed by a parish in London to one manufacturer, had been transferred to another, and had been found by some benevolent persons in a state of absolute famine."
"The Capitalistic Character of Manufacture"
"Does there appear to be any desire on the part of the employers that the boys should have such hours as to enable them to go to school?"
"In this connection Bernstein dwells particularly on Marx's Civil War in France, and tries, quite unsuccessfully, as we have seen, to identify Marx's views on the lessons of the Commune with those of Proudhon."
"We must think only of destroying the old state machine; it is no use studying the concrete lessons of previous proletarian revolutions and analyzing what to put in the place of what has been destroyed and how' argues the anarchist (the best of the anarchists, of course, and not those who, with Messrs. Kropotkin and Co., follow in the wake of the bourgeoisie) consequently, the tactics of the anarchist become the tactics of despair instead of a ruthlessly bold revolutionary effort to solve concrete problems while taking into account the practical conditions of the mass movement."
"Hertford,. .) Though the manufacturer (i.e., the labourer) has his wages advanced to him by his master, he in reality costs him no expense, the value of these wages being generally reserved, together with a profit, in the improved value of the subject upon which his labour is bestowed."
"I considered it useless to prosecute more for this evasion of the law."
"One party of English economists, in the interest of capital, denounces this obstinacy in the most violent manner, another party defends the labourers."
"They are used for manure, for making bedflocks, for shoddy, and they serve as the raw material of paper."
", a state so constituted that it begins to wither away immediately, and cannot but wither away."
"At the same time manufacture was unable, either to seize upon the production of society to its full extent, or to revolutionise that production to its very core."
"And they will come to us with their complaints only when they see that these complaints really have effect, and when they see that we represent a political force."
"Therefore is there, on this earth, no greater enemy of man (after the devil) than a gripe money, and usurer, for he wants to be God over all men."
"They introduced more machinery, and in a moment the labourers were redundant again in a proportion satisfactory even to the farmers."
"The circulation of commodities differs from the direct exchange of products (barter), not only in form, but in substance."
"It is the necessity of bringing a natural force under the control of society, of economising, of appropriating or subduing it on a large scale by the work of man's hand, that first plays the decisive part in the history of industry."
"This contract was concluded for twenty years, with a prudent provision for its annulment in the event of war."
"Although by no means new it figures side by side with time wages officially in the French and English labour statutes of the th century it only conquers a larger field for action during the period of manufacture, properly so called."
"Still greater penury ravaged the town workers examined."
"I have retained this double meaning because it harmonises with the language of the English and French economists."
"During the second half of the th century he is replaced by a farmer, whom the landlord provided with seed, cattle and implements."
"Both England and America, the greatest and last representatives of Anglo Saxon 'liberty,' in the sense that militarism and bureaucracy are absent, have today plunged headlong into the all European, filthy, bloody morass of bureaucratic military institutions to which everything is subordinated and which trample everything under foot."
",.e., the bodies of commodities, are combinations of two elements matter and labour."
"Modern Industry, as we have seen, sweeps away by technical means the manufacturing division of labour, under which each man is bound hand and foot for life to a single detail operation."
"Hence if the number of moves made by the separate pieces increase, the total number of those pieces in circulation diminishes."
"gave the regulation of the wages of silk weavers to the justices of the peace; still, in it required two judgments of the higher courts to decide, whether the mandates of justices of the peace as to wages held good also for non agricultural labourers; still, in an act of Parliament ordered that the wages of the Scotch miners should continue to be regulated by a statute of Elizabeth and two Scotch acts of and."
"The productiveness of labour that serves as its foundation and starting point, is a gift, not of nature, but of a history embracing thousands of centuries."
"of yarn contained no cotton at all, and the whole lbs."
"The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State nd edition, Stuttgart"
"One of the new taxes devised at Washington during the civil war, was the duty of on all industrial products."
"Thenceforth, a serious political contest was altogether out of the question."
"But, in destroying patriarchal and petty bourgeois relationships, large scale machine industry creates, on the other hand, conditions which bring together the wage workers in agriculture with those in industry: first, it, in general, carries into the rural districts the commercial and industrial conditions of life which first arise in the non agricultural centers; second, it creates mobility among the population and large markets for hiring agricultural as well as industrial laborers; third, by introducing machinery into agriculture, large scale machine industry introduces into the rural districts skilled industrial workers who enjoy a higher standard of living."
"On the one hand, then, it is by virtue of its general character, as being expenditure of human labour power in the abstract, that spinning adds new value to the values of the cotton and the spindle; and on the other hand, it is by virtue of its special character, as being a concrete, useful process, that the same labour of spinning both transfers the values of the means of production to the product, and preserves them in the product."
"whereas the second enforceth vigilancy, literature, arts and policy."
"Just as a certain number of simultaneously employed labourers are the material pre requisites for division of labour in manufacture, so are the number and density of the population, which here correspond to the agglomeration in one workshop, a necessary condition for the division of labour in society."
"The particular Equivalent form Each commodity, such as, coat, tea, corn, iron, andc."
"We see no trace of understanding of the fact that imperialism is indissolubly bound up with capitalism in its present form' (!!) 'and therefore also no trace of the realization that an open struggle against imperialism would be hopeless, unless, perhaps, the fight is confined to protests against certain of its especially abhorrent excesses.'"
"to the increase of agricultural produce, this disproportion obtains much more for the last period, when a positive decrease of the agricultural population went hand in hand with increase of the area under cultivation, with more intensive cultivation, unheard of accumulation of the capital incorporated with the soil, and devoted to its working, an augmentation in the products of the soil without parallel in the history of English agriculture, plethoric rent rolls of landlords, and growing wealth of the capitalist farmers."
"And the reason why we, nevertheless, strongly urge the reader to ponder over this universally known fact, and why we quote the facts, as an illustration, so to speak, about Rabocheye Dyelo as it first appeared, and about the controversy between the 'old' and the 'young' at the beginning of is that certain persons are speculating on the public's (or the very youthful youth's) ignorance of these facts, and are boasting of their 'democracy.'"
"France granted loans to Russia in and by the commercial treaty of September"
"In each of these phases the same material elements a commodity, and money, and the same economic dramatis personae, a buyer and a seller confront one another."
"An example of the first sort is the mowing machine; it replaces co operation between mowers."
"Consequently, we see, first, that the addition of new value takes place not by virtue of his labour being spinning in particular, or joinering in particular, but because it is labour in the abstract, a portion of the total labour of society; and we see next, that the value added is of a given definite amount, not because his labour has a special utility, but because it is exerted for a definite time."
"They extorted the privilege they desired."
"I cannot speak to that."
"Improvements of towns, accompanying the increase of wealth, by the demolition of badly built quarters, the erection of palaces for banks, warehouses, andc."
"Between and the English manufactured a famine by buying up all the rice and refusing to sell it again, except at fabulous prices."
"The consideration of the health of the operatives was forced upon the mill owners."
"Owing to these relations with the markets of the world, the demand for labour increases in the carrying trades, which split up into numerous varieties."
"This connection between migration and disintegration is fully proved by I. Hurwitz in his excellent piece of research,"
"An oppressed class under the sway of the feudal nobility, an armed and self governing association in the mediaeval commune; here independent urban republic (as in Italy and Germany), there taxable third estate of the monarchy (as in France), afterwards, in the period of manufacture proper, serving either the semi feudal or the absolute monarchy as a counterpoise against the nobility, and, in fact, cornerstone of the great monarchies in general, the bourgeoisie has at last, since the establishment of Modern Industry and of the world market, conquered for itself, in the modern representative State, exclusive political sway."
"The continual re transformation of surplus value into capital now appears in the shape of the increasing magnitude of the capital that enters into the process of production."
"If the price of each article be and the sum of the prices to be realised be consequently"
"If each of these men gives only one hour of surplus labour in the men give together hours of surplus labour, while hours is the total labour of the two men."
"They quoted the words of Lincoln: 'When the white man governs himself, that is self government, but when he governs himself and also governs others, it is no longer self government; it is despotism.'"
"It must be remembered that privation of food is very reluctantly borne, and that as a rule great poorness of diet will only come when other privations have preceded it."
"No child under years of age shall be employed in any manufacturing establishment more than hours in one day."
"The swollen value of the yarn is of no avail, for it is merely the sum of the values formerly existing in the cotton, the spindle, and the labour power:"
"Of the six small masters, one would therefore squeeze out more than the average rate of surplus value, another less."
"This very fact determines its place in history, for monopoly that grew up on the basis of free competition, and out of free competition, is the transition from the capitalist system to a higher social economic order."
"We have seen that the peasant bourgeoisie not only squeezes out the lower group, but also the middle group of the peasantry."
"Society suddenly finds itself put back into a state of momentary barbarism; it appears as if a famine, a universal war of devastation had cut off the supply of every means of subsistence; industry and commerce seem to be destroyed; and why?"
"In America, there are not nine, but two big banks, those of the billionaires Rockefeller and Morgan, which control a capital of eleven billion marks."
"In this chapter we have, so far, treated it solely as a fund for accumulation."
"Thus Mr. Longe; one of the commissioners, found in Coventry and the neighbourhood boys of from to years employed in driving the ribbon looms, not to mention younger children who had to drive smaller machines."
", from th April to th June, with day of eleven hours, average weekly wages. ."
"For further details on this point, see Book.,"
"There is here no antagonism, as in the case of hoarding, between the money and commodities."
"a week, feet inches long, feet broad, kitchen, feet high; the bedroom without window, fire place, door, or opening, except into the lobby; no garden."
"Formerly their skilled labour necessarily produced all the parts of engines."
"We must also note that Engels very definitely calls universal suffrage an instrument of bourgeois rule."
"On the other hand, implements, in regard to which man has always acted as a simple motive power, as, for instance, by turning the crank of a mill, by pumping, by moving up and down the arm of a bellows, by pounding with a mortar, andc., such implements soon call for the application of animals, water and wind as motive powers."
"By saying this Martynov shows that he absolutely fails to understand the role the revolutionary 'vanguard' must really play."
"We are only asking what is right in requesting the masters generally to pursue a system of short hours, particularly until a better state of things begins to dawn upon us, rather than to work a portion of the hands over time, while others, for want of work, are compelled to exist upon charity."
"The same applies to the labour embodied in the spindle, without whose wear and tear the cotton could not be spun."
"We are not surprised, for the big banks 'command,' as will be seen from the following example: on November one of the big Berlin 'D' banks (such is the name given to the four biggest banks whose names begin with the letter D) wrote to the Board of Directors of the German Central Northwest Cement Syndicate in the following terms: 'We learn, from the notice you published in the Reichsanzeiger of th instant, that the next general meeting of your company, fixed for the th of this month, may decide on measures which are likely to effect changes in your undertakings which we cannot sanction."
"According to this, bourgeois society ought long ago to have gone to the dogs through sheer idleness; for those of its members who work, acquire nothing, and those who acquire anything, do not work."
"The reason why means of production do not lose their value, at the same time that they lose their use value, is this: they lose in the labour process the original form of their use value, only to assume in the product the form of a new use value."
"The product of this process belongs, therefore, to him, just as much as does the wine which is the product of a process of fermentation completed in his cellar."
"I only touch here and there on the period from the beginning of modern industry in England to."
"Some three or five of the biggest banks in each of the foremost capitalist countries have achieved the 'personal union' of industrial and bank capital, and have concentrated in their hands the power to dispose of thousands upon thousands of millions which form the greater part of the capital and revenue of entire countries."
"Tens of thousands of large scale enterprises are everything; millions of small ones are nothing."
"The hands on strike, mothers of families as well as girls, offered to resume work if the timekeeper were replaced by a clock, and a more reasonable scale of fines were introduced."
"It is true, he will in one hour transfer to the yarn more value, in the shape of cotton, than he will in half an hour; but that is only because in one hour he spins up more cotton than in half an hour."
"ne peuvent les obtenir que par des changes purchases of commodities."
"Because Social Democracy is always found to be in advance of all others in its revolutionary estimation of every event and in its championship of every protest against tyranny."
"It has, therefore, lost value more or less."
"At meetings of workers the discussions never, or rarely, go beyond the limits of these subjects."
"But in the capitalist the greed for surplus labour appears in the straining after an unlimited extension of the working day, in the Boyard more simply in a direct hunting after days of corv."
"Because of their absolute danger to the community, houses in great numbers have lately been destroyed by the authorities in Newcastle and Gateshead."
"Children's Employment Com., Rep., Evidence,."
"By December the day of Louis Bonaparte's coup d' tat it had completed one half of its preparatory work; it is now completing the other half."
"It is due to this advantageous situation on the one hand, to the insular peculiarities of the English and to the forcible suppression of the French movements on the other, that the German workers for the moment form the vanguard of the proletarian struggle."
"Bailey accuse Ricardo of converting exchange value from something relative into something absolute."
"The principle of utility was no discovery of Bentham."
"The preliminary campaign of capital thus came to grief, and the Ten Hours' Act came into force May st,."
"As a consequence of this there is a regular trade in the purchase of fag ends of leases."
"Therefore, by thus equating the two substances, expression would be given to their chemical composition, while their different physical forms would be neglected."
"For this twaddle, see Des Syst mes d'Economie Politique, andc."
"A fine science of economy this, which declares it impossible to resolve the price of a commodity into its simplest elements!"
"This can naturally only take place by the expropriation of the present owners and by quartering in their houses the homeless or those workers who are excessively overcrowded in their old houses."
"Thus, we find the manufacture of flint glass combined with that of glass cutting and brass founding; the latter for the metal settings of various articles of glass."
"Fourthly and finally, agricultural capitalism in Russia for the first time uprooted the labor rent system and the personal dependence of the farmer."
"We, however, are working and will continue to work for the cause of labor in close organic contact with the proletarian struggle."
"Reflection and fancy are subject to err; but a habit of moving the hand or the foot is independent of either."
"whichever of these be the cause of the increase, the special productive power of the combined working day is, under all circumstances, the social productive power of labour, or the productive power of social labour."
"General Statutes of Massachusetts, ch."
"The exchange of products, of the different materials in which the labour of society is embodied, forms here the basis of the movement."
"The immediate result of machinery is to augment surplus value and the mass of products in which surplus value is embodied."
"This change may possibly not take place without friction, but take place it must."
"; we shall state merely that a society, demoralized by prolonged political reaction and split by past and present economic changes, advances from its own ranks"
"How then is the value,.g."
"This operation, conducted on a general scale, appears to imply a contradiction."
"Not only the labour, but also the raw material and the product now appear in quite a new light, very different from that in which we viewed them in the labour process pure and simple."
"It is plain, however, that these changes of value are independent of the increment or surplus value added to the value of the cotton by the spinning itself."
"All well developed forms of capitalist production being forms of cooperation, nothing is, of course, easier, than to make abstraction from their antagonistic character, and to transform them by a word into some form of free association, as is done by."
"First, the preliminary stage, consisting of the preparation of the components of the glass, mixing the sand and lime, andc., and melting them into a fluid mass of glass."
"All old established national industries have been destroyed or are daily being destroyed."
"If the value of the labour power be shillings, or the necessary labour time hours, and the surplus value be shillings, or the surplus labour hours, and if, in consequence of an increase in the productiveness of labour, the value of the labour power fall to shillings, or the necessary labour to hours, the surplus value will rise to shillings, or the surplus labour to hours."
"His erroneous dogma: An unfavourable balance of trade never arises but from a redundant currency."
"Its function as a means of payment in the settling of international balances is its chief one."
"The only force that brings them together and puts them in relation with each other, is the selfishness, the gain and the private interests of each."
"One need only glance superficially at the statistics of English pauperism to find that the quantity of paupers increases with every crisis, and diminishes with every revival of trade."
"The lightening of the labour, even, becomes a sort of torture, since the machine does not free the labourer from work, but deprives the work of all interest."
"The modern turbine frees the industrial exploitation of water power from many of its former fetters."
"As is well known, the Paris Commune strove for such an alliance, although it failed to achieve it owing to a number of circumstances, internal and external."
"The result of difference in the natural conditions of labour is this, that the same quantity of labour satisfies, in different countries, a different mass of requirements, consequently, that under circumstances in other respects analogous, the necessary labour time is different."
"The sole alteration consists in the subdivision and denomination."
"But this completely broke the line of thought.'"
"But, what is a working day?"
"Two hundred thousand kilometers of new railways in the colonies and in the other countries of Asia and America represent more than marks in capital, newly invested under particularly advantageous conditions, with special guarantees of a good return and with profitable orders for steel works, etc., etc."
"Is there a base for such work among all the other classes?"
"The more intense working day of one nation would be represented by a greater sum of money than would the less intense day of another nation."
"Straw hat and bonnet making:."
"For this purpose it will be necessary to quote at length from the works of Marx and Engels."
"This is how a great revolutionary doctrine is imperceptibly falsified and adapted to prevailing philistinism!"
"But will it not be centralism when the proletariat and poorest peasantry take political power in their own hands, organize themselves freely in communes, and unite the action of all the communes in striking at capital, in crushing the resistance of the capitalists, in transferring the ownership of the railways, factories, land and so forth, to the entire nation, to the whole of society?"
"But the agricultural year in Wallachia numbers in consequence of the severe climate only days, of which for Sundays and holidays, on an average for bad weather, together days, do not count."
"The names of genuine Engels' italics political parties, however, are never wholly appropriate; the party develops while the name persists.'"
"For example: if in consequence of the increased productiveness of labour, the value of labour power falls from shillings to or the necessary labour time from hours to the price of labour power may possibly not fall below ., ., or ., and the surplus value consequently not rise above ., ., or. ."
"We would advise those who usually so conceitedly and frivolously declare in connection with the disagreements existing among the contemporary Social Democrats that the disagreements are unimportant and would not justify a split, to ponder very deeply over these words."
"be considered as an engine, the parts of which are men."
"To him its use value belongs during one working day."
"Moreover, he could not employ his journeymen in many other handicrafts than the one in which he was a master."
"But a glass furnace has several openings (in England from to, each of which contains an earthenware melting pot full of molten glass, and employs a similar five membered group of workers."
"But in whatever way the sum total of these outlays may be spread over the year, they must be covered by the average income, taking one day with another."
"Accostare separare sono gli unici elementi che l'ingegno umano"
"The official list of paupers numbered in England persons; in in."
"Definite historical conditions are necessary that a product may become a commodity."
"It is optimism in regard to opportunism; it is optimism which serves to conceal opportunism."
"Where, for instance, the physique of the working class has deteriorated, and is, relatively speaking, exhausted, which in the case in all countries with a well developed capitalist production, the lower forms of labour, which demand great expenditure of muscle, are in general considered as skilled, compared with much more delicate forms of labour; the latter sink down to the level of unskilled labour."
"The scope of revolutionary work is too narrow compared with the breadth of the spontaneous basis of the movement."
"Then one thousandth part of the value of the machine is daily transferred to the day's product."
"But we shall go forward to a split with these traitors to socialism, and we shall fight for the complete destruction of the old state machine in order that the armed proletariat itself shall become the government."
"It is instructive to compare this general statement of the idea of the state disappearing after classes have been abolished with the statement contained in The Communist Manifesto, written by Marx and Engels a few months later to be exact, in November '"
"This concrete labour becomes, therefore, the medium for expressing abstract human labour."
"A man who would knock about, and see that things are kept right; a man who would not be afraid of himself."
"as soon as the working day rises to hours, to as soon as it rises to hours."
"But this fact shows that 'Economism' did not arise and spread in Russia without a fight on the part of the 'old' Social Democrats (the Economists of today are apt to forget this)."
"The more, therefore, capital increases by means of successive accumulations, the more does the sum of the value increase that is divided into consumption fund and accumulation fund."
"This does not re establish private property for the producer, but gives him individual property based on the acquisition of the capitalist era:.e., on co operation and the possession in common of the land and of the means of production."
"It has not done so with labour, for much machinery has been idle last year for want of hands."
"Come what will, he has no share either in prosperity or adversity."
"percent., positive audacity; percent."
"Supan examines the years and we will take the year a year aptly selected, for it is precisely at that time that the pre monopolist stage of development of West European capitalism can be said to have been completed, in the main, and we will take the year and in place of Supan's figures we will quote the more recent statistics of bner (Geographical and Statistical Tables)."
"would be attended with no advantage;."
"The enormous growth of industry and the remarkably rapid process of concentration of production in ever larger enterprises represent one of the most characteristic features of capitalism."
"At the same rate, then, as the conversion of products into commodities is being accomplished, so also is the conversion of one special commodity into money."
"The only requisite is that there be a sufficient supply to absorb the labour expended in the process of production."
"Having thus shown that authority and autonomy are relative terms, that the sphere of their application varies with the various phases of social development, that it is absurd to take them as absolutes, and adding that the sphere of the application of machinery and large scale production is constantly becoming enlarged, Engels passes from the general discussion of authority to the question of the state and writes:."
"In the agricultural as well as in the factory districts the consumption of opium among the grown up labourers, both male and female, is extending daily."
"If the limit of the working day is given, and also the limit of its necessary constituent, the mass of value and surplusvalue that an individual capitalist produces, is clearly exclusively dependent on the mass of labour that he sets in motion."
"The brocade factories in the Moscow Gubernia all grew up from small 'kustar' workshops."
"Now the question is put somewhat differently: the transition from capitalist society which is developing towards communism to a communist society is impossible without a 'political transition period,' and the state in this period can only be the revolutionary dictatorship of the proletariat."
"And while at that time it appeared to be something novel, now the general public takes it for granted"
"The Increased Demand for Labour Power that Accompanies Accumulation, the Composition of Capital Remaining the same Section"
"Leaving day work alone open to boys would not answer this purpose."
"If one workman required considerably more time for the production of a commodity than is socially necessary, the duration of the necessary labour time would, in his case, sensibly deviate from the labour time socially necessary on an average; and consequently his labour would not count as average labour, nor his labour power as average labour power."
"This postulate is quite correct as indicating the main trend, but capitalism penetrates into agriculture particularly slowly and in extremely varied forms."
"Condillac: Le Commerce et la Gouvernement."
"In Modern Industry man succeeded for the first time in making the product of his past labour work on a large scale gratuitously, like the forces of Nature."
"A system of machinery, whether it reposes on the mere co operation of similar machines, as in weaving, or on a combination of different machines, as in spinning, constitutes in itself a huge automaton, whenever it is driven by a self acting prime mover."
"In the above argument, Engels raises theoretically the very question which every great revolution raises practically, palpably and on a mass scale of action, namely, the question of the relation between special bodies of armed men and the 'self acting armed organization of the population.'"
"The occupier is to hang up a legible printed notice stating the hours for the beginning and ending of work and the times allowed for the several meals."
"Here, by comparison of the statistics of the individual provinces, and of the individual counties in each province, he proves that the misery there is not, as Malthus would have it, in proportion to the number of the population, but in inverse ratio to this."
"It goes without saying that we cannot guide the struggle of the students, liberals, etc., for their 'immediate interests,' but this is not the point we are arguing about, most worthy Economist!"
"For that reason, the forms of commercial agriculture are distinguished for their great variety, which assume different forms not only in different districts, but also in different farms."
"Hereafter we shall see that the contrary assumption would make no difference."
"Kautsky will have to achieve his beloved 'unity' with the Scheidemanns, Plekhanovs and Vanderveldes, all of whom will agree to fight for a government 'that would be more yielding to the proletariat.'"
"The main point with him is, that the labourer must adapt himself to the work, not the work to the labourer; which latter is unavoidable, if he carries on several trades at once, thus making one or the other of them subordinate."
"One party to the contract sells his labour power, the other buys it."
"Capital is, therefore, not a personal, it is a social power."
"that England was neuer less furnished with people than at the present."
"The small amount thus earned is also often obliged to be spent in extra nourishment."
"It requires a fully developed production of commodities before, from accumulated experience alone, the scientific conviction springs up, that all the different kinds of private labour, which are carried on independently of each other, and yet as spontaneously developed branches of the social division of labour, are continually being reduced to the quantitative proportions in which society requires them."
"Exchanges rise and fall every week, and at some particular times in the year run high against a nation, and at other times run as high on the contrary."
"What strikes us, then, in the English legislation of is, on the one hand, the necessity imposed on the parliament of the ruling classes, of adopting in principle measures so extraordinary, and on so great a scale, against the excesses of capitalistic exploitation; and on the other hand, the hesitation, the repugnance, and the bad faith, with which it lent itself to the task of carrying those measures into practice."
"The second advantage is that, chronologically speaking, the Germans were almost the last to appear in the labor movement."
"If now we further suppose the price of each commodity to be given, the sum of the prices clearly depends on the mass of commodities in circulation."
"The sale of labour power, as will be remembered, takes place for a definite period of time."
"In this law was improved to some extent."
"Direct force, outside economic conditions, is of course still used, but only exceptionally."
"He (the man out of work) may be told the supply of cotton workers is too large."
"In the stormy youth of modern industry, especially from to it served as a lever for the lengthening of the working day, and the lowering of wages."
"Advocating revolutionary tactics, they were united in the conviction that Kautsky was going over to the position of the 'center,' which wavered without principles between Marxism and opportunism."
"Have I not performed the labour of superintendence and of overlooking the spinner?"
"The really democratic centralized republic gave more freedom than the federal republic."
"In a short parable, he reduces the one great event of contemporary history, the American Civil War, to this level, that the Peter of the North wants to break the head of the Paul of the South with all his might, because the Peter of the North hires his labour by the day, and the Paul of the South hires his by the life."
"But the mischiefs of the trade, in the metropolis especially, are that it is monopolised by some twenty six capitalists, who, under the advantages that spring from capital, can bring in capital to force economy out of labour."
"The isolation of the different stages of manufacture, consequent upon the employment of manual labour, adds immensely to the cost of production, the loss mainly arising from the mere removals from one process to another."
"The example of Limerick led to a retrogression in Ennis and Tipperary."
", in short everybody, except the owner of the factory himself."
"According to Adam Smith, men, in his day, made in co operation, over needles a day."
"Enlarging on the program views of Marxism on the state, Engels wrote: 'So, then, a unitary republic but not in the sense of the present French Republic, which is nothing but the Empire established in minus the Emperor."
"Social Democracy existed without a labor movement; it was, as it were, in its period of gestation."
"Le monete le quali oggi sono ideal)"
"What care our great encroachers?"
"With the driest naivet he takes the modern shopkeeper, especially the English shopkeeper, as the normal man."
"I worked all night last night, till o'clock this morning."
"Like all others it has a value."
"Martynov, therefore, speaks of revolutionary energy ('for overthrowing')."
"To bring political knowledge to the workers the Social Democrats must go among all classes of the population, must dispatch units of their army in all directions."
"After Manufacture has once separated, made independent, and isolated the various operations, the labourers are divided, classified, and grouped according to their predominating qualities."
"that or will be needed."
"Banking is in the forefront of this evolution.'"
"But I am quite sure, from my best observation, that any given five men will, in their total, afford a proportion of labour equal to any other five within the periods of life I have stated; that is, that among such five men there will be one possessing all the qualifications of a good workman, one bad, and the other three middling, and approximating to the first, and the last."
"The gulf that divides the owner of the means of production from the worker has already become fairly wide. '"
"It is this, chiefly, which explains why the population of Egypt is so numerous, and, therefore, why so many great works can be undertaken."
"It cannot and never will be anything more in the modern state.'"
"towns given in the census for for England and Wales contained inhabitants, while the villages and country parishes contained."
"Say, who imagines that machines render the service of creating value which forms a part of profits."
"It is the specific duty of the leaders to gain an ever clearer insight into all theoretical questions, to free themselves more and more from the influence of traditional phrases inherited from the old conception of the world, and constantly to keep in mind that socialism, having become a science, must be pursued as a science,.e."
"He there shows, amongst other things, how the monotonous and uselessly long school hours of the children of the upper and middle classes, uselessly add to the labour of the teacher, while he not only fruitlessly but absolutely injuriously, wastes the time, health, and energy of the children."
"Another example of the extraordinary theoretical confusion worthy of."
"(An Inquiry into the Present High Price of Provisions."
"Moreover, the co operation of wage labourers is entirely brought about by the capital that employs them."
"The character of having value, when once impressed upon products, obtains fixity only by reason of their acting and re acting upon each other as quantities of value."
"But this is a mere quantitative difference, which for the present does not concern us."
"of cotton never becomes a constituent element of the yarn, yet assuming this amount of waste to be normal and inevitable under average conditions of spinning, its value is just as surely transferred to the value of the yarn, as is the value of the lbs."
"Upon the Social Democrats was now imposed a task that was difficult in itself, and made incredibly more difficult by purely external obstacles, viz., the task of fighting against the new tendency."
"Yearly income divided divided over among persons."
"Its manufacturing companies alone number no less than sixteen, and their factories make the most varied articles, from cables and insulators to motor cars and aeroplanes."
"These large scale enterprises employ workers out of a total of that is, per cent; they use steam horse power out of a total of that is, percent, and kilowatts of electricity out of a total of that is, percent."
"Rabocheye Dyelo, however, not only follows this 'tactics process,' but elevates it to a principle, so that it would be more correct to describe its tendency not as opportunism, but as Khvostism (from the word khvost)."
"Mr. Broughton Charlton, county magistrate, declared, as chairman of a meeting held at the Assembly Rooms, Nottingham, on the th January, that there was an amount of privation and suffering among that portion of the population connected with the lace trade, unknown in other parts of the kingdom, indeed, in the civilised world."
"Since the relative form of value of a commodity the linen, for example expresses the value of that commodity, as being something wholly different from its substance and properties, as being, for instance, coat like, we see that this expression itself indicates that some social relation lies at the bottom of it."
"or. .; other work is now priced at."
"For the solution of this apparent contradiction, many intermediate terms are as yet wanted, as from the standpoint of elementary algebra many intermediate terms are wanted to understand that may represent an actual magnitude."
"Since the metamorphosis of commodities, or the development of their value form, appears here under a new aspect, money also acquires a fresh function; it becomes the means of payment."
"The whole farce is too characteristic of the spirit of capital, not to call for a few extracts from this Report."
"In this House of Terror, this ideal workhouse, the poor shall work hours in a day, allowing proper time for meals, in such manner that there shall remain hours of neat labour."
"(S. Laing: National Distress, andc., London,."
"But machinery not only acts as a competitor who gets the better of the workman, and is constantly on the point of making him superfluous."
"would be manifestly to their greater advantage."
"As the old irregular system prevails in neighbouring works, the Messrs. Cooksley are subject to the disadvantage of having their boys enticed to continue their labour elsewhere"
"Messrs. Sanderson's profit would thus fall to some extent, and this is the good Sandersonian reason why boys cannot learn their handicraft in the day."
"Either it means subservience to the spontaneity of this movement,.e., reducing the role of Social Democracy to mere subservience to the labor movement as such (the interpretation given to it by Rabochaya Mysl, the Self Emancipation group and other Economists); or it may mean that the mass movement puts before us new, theoretical, political and organizational tasks, far more complicated than those that might have satisfied us in the period before the rise of the mass movement."
"Added in the th German edition The hopelessly bewildering tangle of contradictory enactments (S. (present volume,."
"The accumulation of the first additional capital of pre supposes a value of belonging to the capitalist by virtue of his primitive labour, and advanced by him."
"Secondly, it serves as an ideal means of purchase."
"Indeed, glance at the text of the resolution by which the League of Russian Social Democrats Abroad endorsed the point of view of Rabocheye Dyelo. '"
"By propaganda we would understand the revolutionary elucidation of the whole of the present system or partial manifestations of it, irrespective of whether it is done in a form capable of being understood by individuals or by the broad masses."
"Until that high stage of capitalism was reached, handicraft and primitive technique was preserved and developed quite spontaneously and at a very slow pace."
"This is his productive consumption."
"In the regular factories in which throughout piece wages predominate, particular kinds of work are unsuitable to this form of wage, and are therefore paid by time."
"Thirdly, they could serve as material for the guidance of agitators, because conditions of labor change relatively slowly and the principal demands of the workers in a given trade hardly ever change (see, for example, the demands advanced by the weavers in the Moscow district in and in the St. Petersburg district in ); a compilation of these demands and needs might serve for years as an excellent handbook for agitators on economic questions in backward localities or among backward strata of the workers."
"In so far as actual payments have to be made, money does not serve as a circulating medium, as a mere transient agent in the interchange of products, but as the individual incarnation of social labour, as the independent form of existence of exchange value, as the universal commodity."
"If we say that, as values, commodities are mere congelations of human labour, we reduce them by our analysis, it is true, to the abstraction, value; but we ascribe to this value no form apart from their bodily form."
"But as further the mass of surplusvalue which a single labourer produces, the value of labour power being given, is determined by the rate of the surplusvalue, this law follows: the mass of the surplusvalue produced is equal to the amount of the variable capital advanced, multiplied by the rate of surplusvalue, in other words: it is determined by the compound ratio between the number of labour powers exploited simultaneously by the same capitalist and the degree of exploitation of each individual labour power."
"The celebrated passage in the same chapter that begins with the words, Observe the accommodation of the most common artificer or day labourer in a civilised and thriving country, andc., and then proceeds to depict what an enormous number and variety of industries contribute to the satisfaction of the wants of an ordinary labourer, is copied almost word for word from."
"Buying in order to sell, or, more accurately, buying in order to sell dearer, M', appears certainly to be a form peculiar to one kind of capital alone, namely, merchants' capital."
"For many a decade past the history of industry and commerce is but the history of the revolt of modern productive forces against modern conditions of production, against the property relapagetions that are the conditions for the existence of the bourgeoisie and of its rule."
"But the concentration of the ownership of these railways, that of finance capital, is much greater still: French and English millionaires, for example, own an enormous amount of stocks and bonds in American, Russian and other railways."
"Bedfordshire Wrestlingworth."
"But in your existing society, private property is already done away with for nine tenths of the population; its existence for the few is solely due to its non existence in the hands of those nine tenths."
"It 'completely denies' the deterrent role of terrorism (The Regeneration of Revolutionism), but instead stresses its 'excitative significance.'"
"This gives rise partly to state subsidies to private persons, as in France in the time of Clobber, and as in many German states up to our own epoch, partly to the formation of societies with legal monopoly for the exploitation of certain branches of industry and commerce, the forerunners of our modern jointstock companies."
"They get black and grimy?"
"They (the labourers) become almost the slaves of the tradesman, to whom they owe money."
"The action of the law of supply and demand of labour on this basis completes the despotism of capital."
"Its analysis shows that it is, in reality, a very queer thing, abounding in metaphysical subtleties and theological niceties."
", vols., Lond, vol.,."
"Destined for productive consumption from the very first, this portion exists, for the most part, in the shape of articles totally unfitted for individual consumption."
"st. Table (Tenth Report of the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, Lond.)"
"Silver and gold, coined or uncoined, though they are used for a measure of all other things, are no less a commodity than wine, oil, tobacco, cloth, or stuffs."
"Thus the whole historical movement is concentrated in the hands of the bourgeoisie; every victory so obtained is a victory for the bourgeoisie."
", it is important also to convince the enemy and all neutral elements of this strength; friendly neutrality may sometimes decide the issue."
"Pecunias vero nulli emere fas erit, nam in usu publico constitutas oportet non esse mercem."
"There is no trace of an attempt on Marx's part to conjure up a utopia, to make idle guesses about what cannot be known."
"What we have said with reference to merchants' capital, applies still more to money lenders' capital."
"In the years from to it had increased from the basis taken in by percent.!"
"How, then, to heal the anti capitalistic cancer of the colonies?"
"In order to appraise this 'mental aberration' we will take the following example."
"In in The Communist Manifesto, Marx's answer to this question was still a purely abstract one, or, to speak more correctly, it was an answer that indicated the problem, but did not solve it."
"The bourgeoisie has torn away from the family its sentimental veil, and has reduced the family relation to a mere money relation."
"That rent rolls and profits can ever be excessive, or that their plethora is in any way connected with plethora of the people's misery is, of course, an idea as disreputable as unsound."
"the partition of a process into its essential constituents, for the division or graduation of labour among artisans."
"and at the same period of the day."
"According, therefore, as the measure of value is gold, silver, or copper, the value of the ton of iron will be expressed by very different prices, or will be represented by very different quantities of those metals respectively."
"The work of a London journeyman baker begins, as a rule, at about eleven at night."
"The lowest sediment of the relative surplus population finally dwells in the sphere of pauperism."
"and so that, therefore, no one can become a 'bureaucrat.'"
"But now comes that revival of trade which the mildly liberal Mr. Forster, the negro's friend, recently crowed over with so much grace."
"But it must be borne in mind that those improvements, though carried out fully in some establishments, are by no means general, and are not capable of being brought into use in many of the old manufactories without an expenditure of capital beyond the means of many of the present occupiers."
"In this way they gradually acquire the ability to accumulate a certain amount of wealth and to transform themselves even into future capitalists."
"Where things are tending to the above result, often the cottages which stand, testify, in their unrepaired and wretched condition, to the extinction to which they are doomed."
"From the treatment of the production of surplusvalue, so far, it follows that not every sum of money, or of value, is at pleasure transformable into capital."
"The totality of the necessaries of life consists, however, of various commodities, each the product of a distinct industry; and the value of each of those commodities enters as a component part into the value of labour power."
"For example, the German Party is strengthening its position and spreading its influence, thanks particularly to the untiring energy with which it is conducting a campaign of political exposure."
"The law that regulates the division of labour in the community acts with the irresistible authority of a law of Nature, at the same time that each individual artificer, the smith, the carpenter, and so on, conducts in his workshop all the operations of his handicraft in the traditional way, but independently, and without recognising any authority over him."
"Surplus labor Surplus value Surplus product == =="
"Socios collegiorum maritos esse non permittimus,"
"given birth in the minds of the labourers to corresponding sentiments of antagonism and dissatisfaction towards those by whom they are thus led to regard themselves as being treated as."
"No; they know better than to take a man in with my large family."
"Constant revolutionising of production, uninterrupted disturbance of all social conditions, everlasting uncertainty and agitation dispage tinguish the bourgeois epoch from all earlier ones."
"Martynov deviates in exactly the same way, and we agree, therefore, to take his views as an example of Economist error on this question."
"The different national uniforms worn at home by gold and silver as coins, and doffed again in the market of the world, indicate the separation between the internal or national spheres of the circulation of commodities, and their universal sphere."
"The Times reminded him of the maoufacturers' revolt against the Ten Hours' Bill."
"In order to give the doctor a lesson in good manners, the coroner's jury thereupon brought in a verdict that the deceased had died of apoplexy, but there was reason to fear that her death had been accelerated by over work in an over crowded workroom, andc."
"given the productiveness of labour and its normal intensity, the rate of surplus value can be raised only by the actual prolongation of the working day; on the other hand, given the length of the working day, that rise can be effected only by a change in the relative magnitudes of the components of the working day, viz., necessary labour and surplus labour; a change which, if the wages are not to fall below the value of labour power, presupposes a change either in the productiveness or in the intensity of the labour."
"I need scarcely add that many of these dwellings are dark, damp, dirty, stinking holes, utterly unfit for human habitations; they are the centres from which disease and death are distributed amongst those in better circumstances, who have allowed them thus to fester in our midst."
"The bourgeoisie has stripped of its halo every occupation hitherto honoured and looked up to with reverent awe."
"This part of capital is continually being transformed from a constant into a variable magnitude."
"We ask, is it 'conceivable,' assuming that the capitalist system remains intact and this is precisely the assumption that Kautsky does make that such alliances would be more than temporary, that they would eliminate friction, conflicts and struggle in all and every possible form?"
"This assertion was contradicted by experiments."
"the competition between several imperialisms, and the predominance of the financier over the merchant."
"In Germany, especially after the Thirty Years' War, statutes for keeping down wages were general."
"A sum, many hundred times as great, of old values swells the value of his product, in which those re appear in a new, useful form, and can thus function anew as capital."
"In a given country there take place every day at the same time, but in different localities, numerous one sided metamorphoses of commodities, or, in other words, numerous sales and numerous purchases."
"A single equation, such as ton of iron ounces of gold, now suffices to express the value of the iron in a socially valid manner."
"To discuss the question of the limits of the home market separately from the degree of development of capitalism (as the Narodnik economists do) is wrong."
"Immediate and wholesale, precisely because these open hostilities were not the result of a systematic and carefully thought out and gradually prepared plan for a prolonged and stubborn struggle, but simply the result of the spontaneous growth of traditional circle work; because, naturally, the police, in almost every case, knew the principal leaders of the local movement, for they had already 'recommended' themselves to the police in their schooldays, and the latter only waited for a convenient moment to make their raid."
"Wretch is the recognised term in English Political Economy for the agricultural labourer."
"I have not the least intention of casting aspersions upon the purity of your intentions."
"Philanthropic English economists, like Mill, Rogers, Goldwin Smith, Fawcett, andc., and liberal manufacturers like John Bright and Co., ask the English landed proprietors, as God asked Cain after Abel, Where are our thousands of freeholders gone?"
"If, on the one hand, the workman becomes adapted to the process, on the other, the process was previously made suitable to the workman."
"But first, one word on official pauperism, or on that part of the working class which has forfeited its condition of existence (the sale of labour power), and vegetates upon public alms."
"Weekly Wage of the Men. . . . . ."
"The British Agricultural Proletariat."
"This method gave rise in to a general strike in the English pottery districts."
"Because they are paid by piece wages, it is said that no risk is incurred, since any loss of time will be charged against the unemployed."
"The overthrow of the bourgeoisie can be achieved only by the proletariat becoming transformed into the ruling class, capable of crushing the inevitable and desperate resistance of the bourgeoisie, and of organizing all the toiling and exploited masses for the new economic order."
"But their proportional increase or diminution depends on their original magnitudes before the change in the productiveness of labour took place."
"The latter must be emphasized because the erroneous bourgeois reformist view that monopoly capitalism or state monopoly capitalism is no longer capitalism, but can already be termed 'state socialism,' or something of that sort, is very widespread."
"In the years from to England exported to India and China in silver, which had been received in exchange for Australian gold."
"To say that these two independent and antithetical acts have an intrinsic unity, are essentially one, is the same as to say that this intrinsic oneness expresses itself in an external antithesis."
"This share is directly proportional to the cheapness of the."
"The number of adherents of the new tendency in Russia could be counted in units."
"The new capital of brings in a surplus value of and this, too, is capitalised, converted into a second additional capital, which, in its turn, produces a further surplus value of."
"What appears to happen is, not that gold becomes money, in consequence of all other commodities expressing their values in it, but, on the contrary, that all other commodities universally express their values in gold, because it is money."
"a day would have to be employed."
"Not only were the conquered South German peasants again enslaved."
"In countries where political liberty exists the distinction between a trade union and a political organization is clear, as is the distinction between trade unions and Social Democracy."
"But this dreadful last hour, about which you have invented more stories than have the millenarians about the day of judgment, is all bosh."
"Suppose, for example, that in the old mode of production, a capital of is employed weekly, two fifths being constant and three fifths variable capital,.e., being laid out in means of production, and say per man, in labour power."
"All their housholde stuffe, which is very little woorthe, thoughe it might well abide the sale: yet"
"(Malthus: Definitions, andc."
"If we start from the notion that all commodities together form one single commodity, of which each is but an aliquot part, we get the following beautiful result: The total commodity cwt. of gold; commodity A an aliquot part of the total commodity the same liquot part of cwt. of gold."
"Then the collective working day of men simultaneously employed, consists of hours; and although the labour of each of the dozen men may deviate more or less from average social labour, each of them requiring a different time for the same operation, yet since the working day of each is one twelfth of the collective working day of hours, it possesses the qualities of an average social working day."
"The quantity of it consumed in a given time, by a given amount of labour, increases in the same ratio as does the productive power of that labour in consequence of its division."
"Rabocheye Dyelo goes on sermonizing: 'The revolutionary Social Democrat is only confronted by the task of accelerating objective development by his conscious work: it is not his task to obviate it or substitute his own subjective plans for this development."
"reminds one of the secret revolutionary associations which prepared the French people for the events of."
"While the rich have been growing richer, the poor have been growing less poor."
"As early as John Bellers says: For if one had a hundred thousand acres of land and as many pounds in money, and as many cattle, without a labourer, what would the rich man be, but a labourer?"
"Given the new value produced which sum consequently represents the whole labour expended during the process, then subtracting from it the value of the variable capital, we have remaining the amount of the surplus value."
"Besides, each bank director is often assigned a special industry or locality, where he has a say on the Board of Directors; one works mainly on the Board of Directors of electric companies, another in the chemical, brewing or sugar beet industry; a third in several isolated undertakings, and at the same time, in non industrial, even insurance companies."
"If machinery be the most powerful means for increasing the productiveness of labour.e., for shortening the working time required in the production of a commodity, it becomes in the hands of capital the most powerful means, in those industries first invaded by it, for lengthening the working day beyond all bounds set by human nature."
"where the consumption of a commodity is a part of the process of production."
"Between and the competition with the continent of Europe and with the United States sets in."
"I have certainly taken note of it as I have gone along, and certainly I have seen nothing parallel to the effects of the employment of women on the pit bank."
"The export of capital greatly affects and accelerates the development of capitalism in those countries to which it is exported."
"Subjection of Nature's forces to man, machinery, application of chemistry to industry and agriculture, steam navigation, railways, electric telegraphs, clearing of whole continents for cultivation, canalisation of rivers, whole populations conjured out of the ground what earlier century had even a presentiment that such productive forces slumbered in the lap of social labour?"
"(I know that exception will be taken to my 'undemocratic' views, but I shall reply to this altogether unintelligent objection later on.)"
"One of the biggest banks, the Soci rale, for instance, issues bonds for one of its subsidiary companies, the Egyptian Sugar Refineries."
"There have been societies which managed without it, which had no conception of the state and state power."
"And is it not clear that precisely for this work we need 'allies in the ranks of the liberals and intelligentsia,' who are prepared to join us in the exposure of the political attack on the Zemstvo, on the teachers, on the statisticians, on the students, etc.?"
", for instance, cannot be your majesty to, unless at the same time majesty in B's eyes assumes the bodily form of, and, what is more, with every new father of the people, changes its features, hair, and many other things besides."
"The original capital has now changed from to C', from to."
"Even in the middle of the eighteenth century, the Rev. Mr. Tucker, a notable economist of his time, excused himself for meddling with the things of Mammon."
"Nay more, in proportion as the use of machinery and division of labour increases, in the same proportion the burden of toil also increases, whether by prolongation of the working hours, by increase of the work exacted in a given time or by increased speed of the machinery, etc."
"I shall give the analysis of the real bearings of the facts."
"The latter categories are, with the exception of the stocking weavers, exclusively town dwellers."
"The Economists of the terrorist persuasion repeat after them: 'The decisions of the committee must be circulated among all the circles and become effective only after this has been done.'"
"While the riots were simply uprisings of the oppressed, the systematic strikes represented the class struggle in embryo, but only in embryo."
"Between May and September the work lasts from in the morning till in the evening, and where the drying is done in the open air, it often lasts from in the morning till in the evening."
"Owing to the men working days and nights in alternate weeks, the men would be separated half the time from their boys, and would lose half the profit which they make from them."
"The price of the cotton in April, was."
"This fully expresses the basic idea of Marxism on the question of the historical role and meaning of the state."
"After this reduction to the same terms of the day wages, time wage must again be translated into piece wage, as the latter only can be a measure both of the productivity and the intensity of labour."
"All the preceding classes that got the upper hand, sought to fortify their already acquired status by subjecting society at large to their conditions of appropriation."
"The rooms are generally the ordinary living rooms of small cottages, the chimney stopped up to keep out draughts, the inmates kept warm by their own animal heat alone, and this frequently in winter."
"The difference between the Marxists and the anarchists is this: the former, while aiming at the complete abolition of the state, recognize that this aim can only be achieved after classes have been abolished by the socialist revolution, as the result of the establishment of socialism which leads to the withering away of the state."
"Here it is trumpeted forth as a triumph of English statecraft that at the Peace of Utrecht, England extorted from the Spaniards by the Asiento Treaty the privilege of being allowed to ply the negro trade, until then only carried on between Africa and the English West Indies, between Africa and Spanish America as well."
"Hence, in order to keep the increased number of mechanics in constant employment, one carpet manufacturer after another must displace workmen by machines."
"So it is everywhere."
"Breaks the modern state power,' which was a 'parasitic excrescence'"
"A show village of this kind looks very nice, but is as unreal as the villages that Catherine saw on her journey to the Crimea."
"It only brings it to a close, by stepping in as the absolute form of existence of exchange value, or as the universal commodity."
"Merchant and usurer's capital always historically precede the formation of industrial capital and are logically the necessary premise of its formation (Das Kapital, I); but in themselves, neither merchant capital nor usurer's capital represent a sufficient premise for the rise of industrial capital (i.e., capitalist production); they do not always disintegrate the old mode of production and put in its place the capitalist mode of production; the formation of the latter 'depends entirely upon the stage of historical development and the circumstances surrounding it.'"
"The sooner it is over the sooner Ireland becomes a grazing country, with the comparatively thin population which a grazing country requires, the better for all classes."
"The workmen demand to be paid weekly instead of fortnightly, and by weight instead of by cubical contents of the tubs; they also demand protection against the use of false weights, andc."
"Unluckily for him, weavers are not few and far between."
"In many of these woods the fox, the wild cat, the marten, the polecat, the weasel and the Apline hare are common; whilst the rabbit, the squirrel and the rat have lately made their way into the country."
"Agriculture in England and Wales"
"The injurious consequences soon manifested themselves in reductions of wages, and so sweepingly quick was the fall in the price of labour, that many firms now pay only one half of the original wages."
"The Production of Absolute Surplus Value"
"And this holds generally with the exception of certain tracts of Ulster; in the south, in the counties of Cork, Limerick, Kilkenny, andc."
"A commodity is therefore a mysterious thing, simply because in it the social character of men's labour appears to them as an objective character stamped upon the product of that labour; because the relation of the producers to the sum total of their own labour is presented to them as a social relation, existing not between themselves, but between the products of their labour."
"There is no Chinese Wall between it and the other classes."
"But the fact is that even the bourgeois literature devoted to German banking matters constantly has to go beyond the field of purely banking operations and to speak, for instance, of 'the attraction of the banks' in reference to the increasing frequency with which public officials take employment with the banks. '"
"Some of these prerequisites are: universal literacy, already achieved in most of the advanced capitalist countries, then the 'training and disciplining' of millions of workers by the huge, complex and socialized apparatus of the post office, the railways, the big factories, large scale commerce, banking, etc., etc."
"By what stages, by what practical measures humanity will proceed to this higher aim we do not and cannot know."
"This bred a decay of people, and (by consequence) a decay of towns, churches, tithes, and the like."
"Here the democratic organization might take the following form: the workers will elect delegates who will form a sort of parliament, which draws up the working regulations and superintends the management of the bureaucratic apparatus."
"The direct barter of products attains the elementary form of the relative expression of value in one respect, but not in another."
"The value of labour power, as dependent on its wear and tear, increases with the duration of its functioning, and in more rapid proportion than the increase of that duration."
"From the pole of the commodity owner it is a sale, from the opposite pole of the money owner, it is a purchase."
"As a matter of fact, the money in reality represents the quantity or sum of gold ideally expressed beforehand by the sum of the prices of the commodities."
"Whilst the cotton industry introduced child slavery in England, it gave in the United States a stimulus to the transformation of the earlier, more or less patriarchal slavery, into a system of commercial exploitation."
"This talk about free selling and buying, and all the other brave words of our bourgeoisie about freedom in general, have a meaning, if any, only in contrast with restricted selling and buying, with the fettered traders of the Middle Ages, but have no meaning when opposed to the Communistic abolition of buying and selling, of the bourgeois conditions of production, and of the bourgeoisie itself."
"The material variety of these commodities is the material incentive to the act of exchange, and makes buyers and sellers mutually dependent, because none of them possesses the object of his own wants, and each holds in his hand the object of another's wants."
"Concentration of production, however, is much more intense than the concentration of workers, since labor in the large enterprises is much more productive."
"It is very characteristic that the English Government for years practised this method of primitive accumulation prescribed by Mr. Wakefield expressly for the use of the colonies."
"So far as this depreciation makes itself acutely felt in competition, the burden falls on the labourer, in the increased exploitation of whom the capitalist looks for his indemnification."
"It is not on poor land, but on land which affords rent of from to shillings, that women and children are employed in the greatest numbers."
"The number of workmen in itself does nor affect, either the rate of surplus value, or the degree of exploitation of labour power."
"Finance capital does not want liberty, it wantsdomination,' as Hilferding very truly says."
"By decomposition of handicrafts, by specialisation of the instruments of labour, by the formation of detail labourers, and by grouping and combining the latter into a single mechanism, division of labour in manufacture creates a qualitative gradation, and a quantitative proportion in the social process of production; it consequently creates a definite organisation of the labour of society, and thereby develops at the same time new productive forces in the society."
"The world oil market,' wrote Jeidels in 'is even today divided in the main between two great financial groups Rockefel ler's Standard Oil Co., and the controlling interests of the Russian oilfields in Baku, Rothschild and Nobel."
"One consequence of the peculiar nature of labour power as a commodity is, that its use value does not, on the conclusion of the contract between the buyer and seller, immediately pass into the hands of the former."
"had not fair warning beforehand."
"It is, besides, constantly interrupted by the technical progress that at one time virtually supplies the place of new workmen, at another, actually displaces old ones."
"First metamorphosis, or sale The leap taken by value from the body of the commodity, into the body of the gold, is, as I have elsewhere called it, the salto mortale of the commodity."
"salt, coals, and a number of other necessary means of subsistence."
"Speaking generally, this was an extremely curious phenomenon that no one in the 'eighties or the beginning of the 'nineties would have believed possible."
"An approximate estimate of the capacity of markets is also made, and the trusts divide them up among themselves by agreement."
"This gradually brings on a reaction like that already described in time wages, without reckoning that the prolongation of the working day, even if the piece wage remains constant, includes of necessity a fall in the price of the labour."
"ought the government then to work in opposition to this division of labour, and to hinder its natural course?"
"Hence the increase of the hands in these latter trades was merely a symptom of a diminution in the total number employed."
"In consequence there arose local famines, the defective means of communication not permitting the failure of rice in one district to be compensated by importation from another."
"Neither the nature, nor the value of this material is of any importance."
"Altogether collisions between the classes of the old society further, in many ways, the course of development of the proletariat."
"It is the tendency of unbounded opportunism, which passively adapts itself to spontaneity. '"
"Evidently, Engels' warning, particularly to the German Socialists, against 'superstitious reverence' for the state was not an idle one."
"Unfortunately, due to insufficient inspection personnel, the English code is still largely a dead letter with regard to its application to workshops."
"This is explained by the to million pounds sterling revenue from 'invested' capital, the income of the rentier class."
"We therefore find that speculators make it a rule when such sudden changes in value occur, to speculate in that material on which the least possible quantity of labour has been spent: to speculate, therefore, in yarn rather than in cloth, in cotton itself, rather than in yarn."
"The lodging which is obtained by the pitman and other labourers connected with the collieries of Northumberland and Durham, says Dr. Julian Hunter, is perhaps, on the whole, the worst and the dearest of which any large specimens can be found in England, the similar parishes of Monmouthshire excepted."
"Instead of continuing to be the agent of the Central Government, the police was at once stripped of its political attributes, and turned into the responsible and at all times revocable agent of the Commune."
"When a labourer, said Mr. Ashworth, a cotton magnate, to Professor Nassau."
"See Rouard de Card, On the Falsifications of the hlaterials of the Sacrament."
"In these pamphlets, leg and illegal material should be collected and grouped systematically, on conditions of labor in a given trade, on the various conditions prevailing in the various parts of Russia, on the principal demands advanced by the workers in a given trade, on the defects of the laws in relation to that trade, on the outstanding cases of workers' economic struggle in this trade, on the rudiments, the present state and the requirements of their trade union organizations, etc."
"A commodity owner is thus brought into contact with a possessor of money."
"The colossal effects of simple co operation are to be seen in the gigantic structures of the ancient Asiatics, Egyptians, Etruscans, andc."
"to make sure of the nexus rerum or the social pledge."
"Only those who are accustomed to sitting between two stools lack 'provocativeness'; only such people are able to praise the provocativeness of Rabochaya Mysl one day, and attack the 'provocative polemics' of its opponents the next."
"the lessee acts as if the whole colony were encamped, not resident."
"Supported by his own legal decision, he introduced the system at once into his own factory."
"In England, the melting furnace is distinct from the glass furnace in which the glass is manipulated."
"It is one of the great merits of the Physiocrats, that in their Tableau conomique they were the first to attempt to depict the annual production in the shape in which it is presented to us after passing through the process of circulation."
"Her technical means for saving labour are colossal."
"But don't wrangle with us so long as you apply, to our intended abolition of bourgeois property, the standard of your bourgeois notions of freedom, culture, law, etc."
"James Anderson: Observations on the Means of Exciting a Spirit of National Industry, andc."
"the surplus labor of hours"
"The Colonial system and the opening out of the markets of the world, both of which are included in the general conditions of existence of the manufacturing period, furnish rich material for developing the division of labour in society."
"The ages of the children and young persons run through all intermediate grades, from (in some cases from to."
"We shall, however, see, in Book Ill., that even in the case of average prices the assumption cannot be made in this very simple manner."
"Bell, Mr. Guthrie, andc."
"The conduct of each of these classes (capitalists and workmen) has been the result of the relative situatico in which they have been placed."
"Rifle Court Marygate,"
"A sells wine worth to, and obtains from him in exchange corn to the value of."
"It is accordingly a maxim of slave management, in slave importing countries, that the most effective economy is that which takes out of the human chattel in the shortest space of time the utmost amount of exertion it is capable of putting forth."
"can by saving mean.mere hoarding: and beyond this contracted and insufficient proceeding, no use of the term in reference to the national wealth can well be imagined,."
"To the out cry as to the physical and mental degradation, the premature death, the torture of over work, it answers: Ought these to trouble us since they increase our profits?"
"All, or at any rate, all the most essential passages in the works of Marx and Engels on the subject of the state must necessarily be given as fully as possible, in order that the reader may form an independent opinion on the totality of views of the founders of scientific socialism and on the development of those views, and in order that their distortion by the now prevailing 'Kautskyism' may be documentarily proved and clearly demonstrated."
"To set in motion the part of social wealth which is to function as constant capital, or, to express it in a material form, as means of production, a definite mass of living labour is required."
"(Special Supplement to Rabochaya Mysl.)"
"The 'economic struggle against the employers and the government' does not in the least require and therefore such a struggle can never give rise to an all Russian centralized organization that will combine, in a general attack, all the numerous manifestations of political opposition, protest and indignation, an organization that will consist of professional revolutionaries and be led by the real political leaders of the whole of the people."
"Yes, expense might be incurred, but life would be at the same time protected."
"The toning down of the deepest contradictions of imperialism by Kautsky, which inevitably becomes an embellishment of imperialism, leaves its traces in this writer's criticism of the political features of imperialism."
"The consumption of labour power by capital is, besides, so rapid that the labourer, half way through his life, has already more or less completely lived himself out."
"It is impossible to look at a question of this sort absolutely by itself?"
"The rapid rise of the Flemish wool manufactures, and the corresponding rise in the price of wool in England, gave the direct impulse to these evictions."
"the injury to workpeople who are not employed on piece work, but receive weekly wages."
"All but one have come this morning."
"If one man performs the work of two."
"There is almost no house property in London that is not overburdened with a number of middlemen."
"whatever, either in quantity, amount or duration, to those granted or entered upon to morrow or next day, nay, many of today's bills, and credits, when due, fall in with a mass of liabilities whose origins traverse a range of antecedent dates altogether indefinite, bills at months or often aggregating together to swell the common liabilities of one particular day."
"Because the commodity that serves as money is capable of being replaced in circulation by mere symbols of value, therefore its functions as a measure of value and a standard of prices are declared to be superfluous!"
"Hence at one and the same time there is produced a two fold result."
"Thus many labourers were compelled to seek shelter in villages and towns."
"But hand in hand with the increasing productivity of labour, goes, as we have seen, the cheapening of the labourer, therefore a higher rate of surplus value, even when the real wages are rising."
"In spite of their ruthless criticism of the reactionary nature of small states, and, in certain concrete cases, the screening of this by the national question, Engels and Marx never betrayed a trace of a desire to evade the national question a desire of which the Dutch and Polish Marxists are often guilty, as a result of their very justifiable opposition to the narrow philistine nationalism of 'their' little states."
"The illegal alienation of the Crown Estates, partly by sale and partly by gift, is a scandalous chapter in English history."
"As we have already observed, Rabocheye Dyelo comes before Russian Social Democracy, demands 'freedom of criticism,' and defends Bernsteinism."
"These giant enterprises embrace branches of industry."
"I thought, he says, I was in the spirit before the Judge of the Universe."
"One after one the liberties of the people have been cloven down."
"Buckinghamshire cottages on acres of land contained here about persons."
"What is that equal something, that common substance, which admits of the value of the beds being expressed by a house?"
"And a French bourgeois writer, developing and supplementing, as it were, the ideas of Cecil Rhodes, which we quoted above, writes that social causes should be added to the economic causes of modern colonial policy. '"
"This change of form does not imply a change in the magnitude of the value."
"Towards the end of the week."
"If busy, they work till or at night for successive nights."
"The new state machine permits of centralism as much as the old; if the workers voluntarily unite their armed forces, this will be centralism, but this centralism will be based on the 'complete destruction' of the centralized state apparatus the standing army, the police and the bureaucracy."
"The resulting increased productive power is owing either to an increased expenditure of labour power in a given time.e., to increased intensity of labour or to a decrease in the amount of labour power unproductively consumed."
"After this mighty effort of thought, he triumphantly apostrophises Malthus in the words: Telle est, monsieur, la doctrine"
"When treating of use value, we always assume to be dealing with definite quantities, such as dozens of watches, yards of linen, or tons of iron."
"The opposition against the establishment of new manufactures, proceeds from the guilds and privileged towns, not from the workpeople."
"The Manchester Spinner (Times, th Nov., before referred to says in relation to this subject: It (namely, the allowance for deterioration of machinery is also intended to cover the loss which is constantly arising from the superseding of machines before they are worn out, by others of a new and better construction."
"You would persuade us, by the example of David Hume, Esq., that atheism is the only cordial for low spirits, and the proper antidote against the fear of death."
"The majority of those who did not obtain milk were needle women in London."
"What Mandeville, an honest, clear headed man, had not yet seen, is that the mechanism of the process of accumulation itself increases, along with the capital, the mass of labouring poor, .e., the wage labourers, who turn their labour power into an increasing power of self expansion of the growing capital, and even by doing so must eternise their dependent relation on their own product, as personified in the capitalists."
"A central body of management, able to survey the large fields of social economy from a more elevated point of view, will regulate it for the benefit of the whole of society, will be able to put the means of production into suitable hands, and above all will take care that there be constant harmony between production and consumption."
"He takes the statistics of British import and export trade with Egypt for and."
"With few exceptions,.g."
"As to the extent of the stoppage, it appears from authentic estimates, that in October of the spindles, and of the looms were standing."
"Now, although this lbs."
"which are directly related to the question of the home market."
"A flying column of pestilence, it carries into the places in whose neighbourhood it pitches its camp, small pox, typhus, cholera, scarlet fever, andc."
"Both parts of the labour time exist, therefore, independently, side by side one with the other."
"Marx knew how to break with anarchism ruthlessly for its inability to make use even of the 'pig sty' of bourgeois parliamentarism, especially at a time when the situation was obviously not revolutionary; but at the same time he knew how to subject parliamentarism to genuine revolutionary proletarian criticism."
"So in English to save has the same two meanings: sauver and pargner."
"We will quote Driault, the historian, who, in his book, Political and Social Problems at the End of the Nineteenth Century, in the chapter 'The Great Powers and the Division of the World,' wrote the following: 'During recent years all the free territory of the earth, with the exception of China, has been occupied by the powers of Europe and North America."
"We see that only against its will and under the pressure of the masses did the English Parliament give up the laws against Strikes and Trades' Unions, after it had itself, for years, held, with shameless egoism, the position of a permanent Trades' Union of the capitalists against the labourers."
"He creates surplus value which, for the capitalist, has all the charms of a creation out of nothing."
"Serebryakov, the editor of the London magazine, Nakanunye, has a tender feeling for Rabocheye Dyelo, and is filled with hatred against Plekhanov and the Plekhanovists."
"To understand what this means concretely, let the reader call to mind the predecessors of Russian Social Democracy like Herzen, Belinsky, Chernyshevsky and the brilliant band of revolutionaries of the 'seventies; let him ponder over the world significance which Russian literature is now acquiring; let him."
"If only a part, say one half, were consumed, the same result would follow at the end of years, since."
"Accordingly, the old Hainfeld program quite rightly stated that the task of Social Democracy is to imbue the proletariat with the consciousness of its position and the consciousness of its tasks."
"To prove that 'primitive democracy' is worthless, Bernstein refers to the experience of the British trade unions, as interpreted by the Webbs."
"no matter how much it may desire to do so; both arise out of the modern social process."
"Broad principles' turns out to be a resonant but hollow phrase."
"Our first inquiry then is, how the instruments of labour are converted from tools into machines, or what is the difference between a machine and the implements of a handicraft?"
"Our analysis of absolute surplus value had reference primarily to the extension or duration of the labour, its intensity being assumed as given."
"The French Twelve Hours' Bill of September th, a bourgeois edition of the decree of the Provisional Government of March nd, holds in all workshops without exceptions."
"of yarn on the one hand, and in the lbs."
"The factory hands, especially since had made the Ten Hours' Bill their economic, as they had made the Charter their political, election cry."
"We encouraged the protests of the statisticians (No., and censured the strike breaking statisticians."
"well knowing that if its latter conditions be exorbitant, the consequences fall, not on him, that his labourers on whom they fall have not education enough to know the value of their sanitary rights, that neither obscenest lodging nor foulest drinking water will be appreciable inducements towards a 'strike.'."
"percent of the total number of workers."
"Marx said: 'The Commune was to be a working, not a parliamentary body, executive and legislative at the same time. '"
"Thus in the oldest caves we find stone implements and weapons."
"The Communists have not invented the intervention of society in education; they do but seek to alter the character of that intervention, and to rescue education from the influence of the ruling class."
"It has converted the physician, the lawyer, the priest, the poet, the man of science, into its paid wage labourers."
"They also regulate the dates for payments that have no direct connexion with the circulation of commodities such as taxes, rents, and so on."
"This is a great error, as the latter alone make a really important object of national prosperity."
"even in some instances."
"Aristotle therefore, himself, tells us, what barred the way to his further analysis; it was the absence of any concept of value."
"At present the post office is a business organized on the lines of a state capitalist monopoly."
"Thus, even the simple reproduction of these means of production now requires that they shall be purchased (formerly, in the majority of cases, these means of production were reproduced in the natural form and sometimes they were made at home),.e., creates a market for means of production, and later, the products produced with the aid of these means of production are also transformed into commodities."
"The following table shows the movement of the exports: After these few examples one understands the cry of triumph of the Registrar General of the British people: Rapidly as the population has increased, it has not kept pace with the progress of industry and wealth."
"From to depression; and prosperity; abolition of the laws against Trades' Unions, great extension of factories everywhere; crisis; great misery and riots among the factory operatives; slight improvement; great increase in power looms, and in exports; exports, especially to India, surpass all former years; glutted markets, great distress; to continued depression, the monopoly of the trade with India and China withdrawn from the, East India Company; great increase of factories and machinery, shortness of hands."
"With this polarization of th market for commodities, the fundamental conditions of capitalist production are given."
"This is their plain, homely, bodily form."
"recognized by both employer and employed as the standard of wages for the general run of workmen in the trade."
"is only natural that a Social Democrat, who conceives the political struggle as being identical with the 'economic struggle against the employers and the government,' should conceive of an 'organization of revolutionaries' as being more or less identical with an 'organization of workers.'"
"Whatever is useful to this queer normal man, and to his world, is absolutely useful."
"profits by the capitalists in one of the numerous branches of industry, in one of numerous countries, etc., makes it economically possible for them to corrupt individual sections of the working class and sometimes a fairly considerable minority, and win them to the side of the capitalists of a given industry or nation against all the others."
"It is therefore self evident, to what an enormous extent the toil of the factory operative has increased during the last years."
"But the value of their program is best shown by the behavior of our Socialist Revolutionaries and Mensheviks, who, precisely after the revolution of March refused to carry out this demand! '"
"Manufacture, therefore, develops a hierarchy of labour powers, to which there corresponds a scale of wages."
"The labourer therefore finds, in the workshop, the means of production necessary for working, not only during six, but during twelve hours."
"Krichevsky and by Martynov, about the dangers of belittling the significance of the spontaneous elements, about the drab every day struggle, about the tactics process, etc., are nothing more than a glorification and defense of primitive methods."
"as the authors of the letter, published in Iskra, No. expressed it, in unison with Rabocheye Dyelo, No."
"The Mountain and the Gironde did not represent two different temperaments, or intellectual tendencies, as ideologist historians may think, but two different classes or strata the middle bourgeoisie on the one hand, and the petty bourgeoisie and the proletariat on the other."
"Not less characteristic of the development of French society, generally, is the fact, that Louis Philippe law stood solitary among the all embracing mass of French laws, till the Revolution of."
"If you call labour a commodity, it is not like a commodity which is first produced in order to exchange, and then brought to market where it must exchange with other commodities according to the respective quantities of each which there may be in the market at the time; labour is created the moment it is brought to market; nay, it is brought to market before it is created."
"houses visited, with only one bedroom."
"But most characteristic of all, perhaps, is the amazing top heaviness of the whole 'system,' which attempts to bind every factory with the 'committee' by a permanent string of uniform and ludicrously petty rules and a three stage system of election."
"Altogether, Liefmann, in counted about forty international cartels in which Germany had a share, while in there were about a hundred."
"To guard against false conclusions from the text, I ought here to remark that the English cotton industry, since it was placed under the Factory Act of with its regulations of labour time, andc."
"An Essay on Trade and Commerce, London, .)"
"The fact that the latter therefore has a value is expressed by saying that the coat is directly exchangeable with it."
"Smith also confounds differentiation of the instruments of labour, in which the detail labourers themselves took an active part, with the invention of machinery; in this latter, it is not the workmen in manufactories, but learned men, handicraftsman, and even peasants (Brindley), who play a part."
"Here is an example of Kautsky's economic criticism of imperialism."
"But, even in that case, the latter would extend its limits."
"The new form represents a transition towards something."
"The reader will remember the two sorts of London bakers, of whom one sold the bread at its full price (the full priced bakers), the other below its normal price the under priced, the undersellers."
"The third and lastly developed form expresses the values of the whole world of commodities in terms of a single commodity set apart for the purpose, namely, the linen, and thus represents to us their values by means of their equality with linen."
"Again, money functions as a means of circulation only because in it the values of commodities have independent reality."
"Since the process of production is also the process by which the capitalist consumes labour power, the product of the labourer is incessantly converted, not only into commodities, but into capital, into value that sucks up the value creating power, into means of subsistence that buy the person of the labourer, into means of production that command the producers."
"And Bentham, because each looks only to himself."
"(Turgot, flexions, andc."
"They develop at a much quicker rate, because mere accumulation, the absolute increase of the total social capital, is accompanied by the centralisation of the individual capitals of which that total is made up; and because the change in the technological composition of the additional capital goes hand in hand with a similar change in the technological composition of the original capital."
"The analogy appears most indisputable where there is an invisible bond uniting the various branches of trade."
"This they call a temporary inconvenience."
"It is otherwise with exchange value."
"Here, however, a task is set us, the performance of which has never yet even been attempted by bourgeois economy, the task of tracing the genesis of this money form, of developing the expression of value implied in the value relation of commodities, from its simplest, almost imperceptible outline, to the dazzling money form."
"The country districts swept of children."
"is a source of great gain to the investor."
"With the Phoenicians, a trading people par excellence, money was the transmuted shape of everything."
"Certainly, this growth appears less important when we consider that in the hand loom weavers with their families still numbered not to mention those thrown out of work in Asia, and on the Continent of Europe."
"Reports of the Inspectors of Factories for st Oct.,.)"
"We bear in mind, however, that if the value of the coat is double that of yds. of linen, yds."
"This hours' process of production exists to day as a system in many of the branches of industry of Great Britain that are still free, in the blast furnaces, forges, plate rolling mills, and other metallurgical establishments in England, Wales, and Scotland."
"This is the first step to which competition leads."
"they give themselves by this piece of imitativeness!. '"
", the instruments of labour, the raw material, and the auxiliary substances consumed in the course of the year by an equal quantity of the same kind of articles; these must be separated from the mass of the yearly products, and thrown afresh into the process of production."
"The producer here becomes more independent and obtains the possibility of acquiring by his labor a certain quantity of products over and above his indispensable requirements. '"
"For the complete withering away of the state, complete communism is necessary."
"I have not ascertained anything as to that."
"Josiah Wedgwood, the inventor of modern pottery, himself originally a common workman, said in before the House of Commons that the whole trade employed from to people."
"The consequences of this are various."
"In its quest,' continue the Economists, 'Iskra not infrequently departs from the class point of view, obscures class antagonisms and puts into the forefront the general character of the prevailing discontent with the government, notwithstanding the fact that the causes and the degree of his discontent vary very considerably among the 'allies.'"
"The economic structure of capitalist society has grown out of the economic structure of feudal society."
"Hence, the sum of the prices to be realisedj and consequently the quantity of the circulating medium depending on that sum, will vary with the numerous variations of these three factors in combination."
"And yet then also they be caste in prison as vagaboundes, because they go aboute and worke not: whom no man wyl set a worke though thei neuer so willyngly profre themselues therto."
", are impossible without the expropriation of the laborers, and the corresponding transformation of their means of production into capital."
"Quite often industrial and commercial circles complain of the 'terrorism' of the banks."
"Now, at the end of the nineteenth century, there is a real party, but its name is scientifically inexact."
"Law, morality, religion, are to him so many bourgeois prejudices, behind which lurk in ambush just as many bourgeois interests."
"The consequences were, according to the medical report we received, that in the night time these poor people were compelled to endure all the horror of suffocation to avoid the pestiferous smells arising from the filthy, stagnant water, and the privies close under their windows."
"Thirty years ago one spinner with three placers was not required to attend to more than one pair of mules with spindles."
"For this latter function, the genuine money commodity, actual gold and silver, is necessary."
"Twenty three paragraphs deal with structure, the method of conducting business and the competence of the 'workers' circles,' which are to be organized in every factory ('not more than ten persons') and which elect 'central (factory) groups.' '"
"Indeed, no one, we think, has up to now doubted that the strength of the modern movement lies in the awakening of the masses (principally, the industrial prole tariat), and that its weakness lies in the lack of consciousness and initiative among the revolutionary leaders."
"This subjective principle of the division of labour no longer exists in production by machinery."
"I give, in conclusion, a comparative table of Mr. Redgrave's, on the average number of spindles per factory and per spinner in the different countries of Europe."
"A single commodity, the linen, appears therefore to have acquired the character of direct exchangeability with every other commodity because, and in so far as, this character is denied to every other commodity."
"The bourgeoisie cannot exist without continually revolutionising the instruments of production, and thereby the relations of production and all the social relations."
"Compare, for instance, the higher with the lower branches of mathematics."
"He had already dealt with this subject in his earlier work:"
"A riddle with which Quesnay, one of the founders of Political Economy, tormented his opponents, and to which they could give him no answer."
"There was now more capital laid out in agriculture than before, and in a more productive form."
"Democracy is of great importance for the working class in its struggle for freedom against the capitalists."
"And the author added: 'In this partition of the world, in this furious pursuit of the treasures and of the big markets of the globe, the relative power of the empires founded in this nineteenth century is totally out of proportion to the place occupied in Europe by the nations which founded them."
"Since this remainder plays no part in the formation of value, we may at present leave it on one side."
"I am far from denying the necessity for popular literature for the workers, and especially popular (but, of course, not vulgar) literature for the especially backward workers."
"Before we proceed to describe these types we will state the following."
"First of all, if indeed newspapers appeared 'in every locality where any number of workers are collected' with such detailed information on municipal affairs as Svoboda desires, it would, under our Russian conditions, inevitably degenerate into a striving for petty reforms, would lead to a weakening of the consciousness of the importance of an all Russian revolutionary attack upon the tsarist autocracy, and would strengthen those extremely virile shoots of the tendency not uprooted but rather temporarily suppressed which has already become notorious as a result of the famous remark about revolutionaries who talk a great deal about non existent parliaments and too little about existing city councils."
"For his maintenance he requires a given quantity of the means of subsistence."
"What was the historical service Lassalle rendered to the German labor movement?"
"Suppose now such an eastem bread cutter requires working hours a week for the satisfaction of all his wants."
"The operatives have been greatly disappointed."
"By this absorption it is in fact changed into yarn, because it is spun, because labour power in the form of spinning is added to it; but the product, the yarn, is now nothing more than a measure of the labour absorbed by the cotton."
"Linguet, Th orie des Lois Civiles."
"For it hath been held by the general opinion of men of best judgment in the wars."
"in would suit us (!)"
"The first new type is the rural bourgeoisie, or wealthy peasantry."
"When a man is in want of a demand, does Mr. Malthus recommend him to pay some other person to take off his goods?"
"The circulating medium was transformed into a hoard, because the process stopped short after the first phase, because the converted shape of the commodity, viz., the money, was withdrawn from circulation."
"Growth of capital involves growth of its variable constituent or of the part invested in labour power."
"In the year an official inquiry took place into the conditions of nourishment and labour of the criminals condemned to transportation and penal servitude."
"Protective duties: for the benefit of the working class."
"With the development of industry, with the accumulation of capital, with the growth and improvement of towns, the evil makes such progress that the mere fear of contagious diseases which do not spare even respectability, brought into existence from to no less than Acts of Parliament on sanitation, and that the frightened bourgeois in some towns, as Liverpool, Glasgow, andc."
"The number of power looms in worsted mills was, in in in."
"Contrariwise, the movement of the means of payment expresses a social relation that was in existence long before."
"The opinion that this difference is due to the difference in the pricerelations between food and clothing then and now is refuted by the most cursory glance at Chronicon Preciosum, Icc."
"Along with them, the state will inevitably fall."
"This is an obvious trick: Pannekoek raised the question of revolution."
"When numerous labourers work together side by side, whether in one and the same process, or in different but connected processes, they are said to co operate, or to work in co operation."
"Freedom of criticism,' this undoubtedly is the most fashionable slogan at the present time, and the one most frequently employed in the controversies between the Socialists and democrats of all countries."
"It merely expresses the most striking feature of the process going on before our eyes."
"As to the cheapening of the means of subsistence, the official statistics,.g."
"In order to make their work coincide with that of the adult male labourers up to .m., the manufacturers only had to give them no work till in the afternoon, they could then keep them in the factory without intermission till in the evening."
"Unfortunately the acquisition of this art occurred at a time when they had nothing to cook."
"For the first time, legislation saw itself compelled to control directly and officially the labour of adults."
"A View of the Art of Colonisation."
"The expanded form of relative value, which is the expression of the value of one commodity in terms of all other commodities, endows those other commodities with the character of particular equivalents differing in kind."
"Such desolation, such hopelessness was about these people and their little room, as I should not care to witness again. '"
"Engels writes: 'The political demands of the draft have one great fault."
"This is essentially the result of a revolution in the mode of production of both metals."
"In the meantime the pressure from without grew more threatening."
"Three girls of at wages of from shillings to shillings a week, have replaced the one man of mature age, of wages varying from shillings to shillings."
"Such properties claim our attention only in so far as they affect the utility of those commodities, make them use values."
"A wider, freer and more open form of the class struggle and of class oppression greatly assists the proletariat in its struggle for the abolition of all classes."
"Could a man leave by giving days' notice?"
"If he thinks that Iskra's 'subjective plans' are erroneous (as he in fact declares them to be), then he ought to show what objective facts are ignored in these plans, and then charge Iskra with a lack of consciousness for ignoring them, with, to use his own words, 'belittling the conscious element.'"
"Hence, if the value of commodity A remain constant, its relative value expressed in commodity rises and falls inversely as the value of."
"The cotton that was bought for is perhaps resold for or."
"This public power exists in every state; it consists not merely of armed men, but of material appendages, prisons and coercive institutions of all kinds, of which gentile society knew nothing.'"
"you are wasting your time, gentlemen; you are interfering with excessive zeal in a job that we can manage ourselves, and you are neglecting your own duties."
"A second and more practical, but less systematic, form of this Socialism sought to depreciate every revolutionary movement in the eyes of the working class, by showing that no mere political reform, but only a change in the material conditions of existence, in economical relations, could be of any advantage to them."
"It requires but little racking of brains to comprehend that if one quarter of wheat costs quarters will cost quarters and so on, that consequently the quantity of money that changes place with the wheat, when sold, must increase with the quantity of that wheat."
"This is why and the only reason why the officials of our political and industrial organizations are corrupted or, more precisely, tend to be corrupted by the conditions of capitalism, why they betray a tendency to become transformed into bureaucrats,.e., into privileged persons divorced from the masses and superior to the masses."
"In France, where the expropriation was effected in another way, the ordonnance of Moulins, and the Edict of correspond to the English poor laws."
"Svoboda advocates terror as a means of 'exciting' the labor movement, and of giving it a 'strong impetus.'"
"It is the expression of equivalence between different sorts of commodities that alone brings into relief the specific character of value creating labour, and this it does by actually reducing the different varieties of labour embodied in the different kinds of commodities to their common quality of human labour in the abstract."
"For instance, when, in the Revolution of the question of the real meaning and role of the state arose in all its magnitude as a practical question demanding immediate action on a wide mass scale, all the Socialist Revolutionaries and Mensheviks immediately and completely sank to the petty bourgeois theory that the 'state' 'conciliates' classes."
"He thus falls into the commonplace error of the vulgar economists, who assume the value of one commodity (in this case labour) in order to determine the values of the rest."
"The labour process, resolved as above into its simple elementary factors, is human action with a view to the production of use values, appropriation of natural substances to human requirements; it is the necessary condition for effecting exchange of matter between man and Nature; it is the everlasting Nature imposed condition of human existence, and therefore is independent of every social phase of that existence, or rather, is common to every such phase."
"Thus the villainies of the Venetian thieving system formed one of the secret bases of the capital wealth of Holland to whom Venice in her decadence lent large sums of money."
"How can that be expected from a man who has been at such work for or hours, exposed to the weather, and without rest."
"There are, however, states of society in which one and the same man does tailoring and weaving alternately, in which case these two forms of labour are mere modifications of the labour of the same individual, and no special and fixed functions of different persons, just as the coat which our tailor makes one day, and the trousers which he makes another day, imply only a variation in the labour of one and the same individual."
"The isolated expression of A's value, is therefore convertible into a series, prolonged to any length, of the different elementary expressions of that value."
"In particular, the process of technical invention and improvement becomes socialized."
"The history of all past society has consisted in the development of class antagonisms, antagonisms that assumed different forms at different epochs."
"The colonies secured a market for the budding manufactures, and, through the monopoly of the market, an increased accumulation."
"Krichevsky and Martynov against Zarya and Iskra."
"In one of these groups, and in the other group, each concluded a separate agreement with yet another factory."
"The 'most pronounced Bernsteinists' are still tolerated in the ranks of the German Party only because they submit to the Hanover resolution, which emphatically rejected Bernstein's 'amendments,' and to the beck resolution, which, notwithstanding the diplomatic terms in which it is couched, contains a direct warning to Bernstein."
"So we go on from day to day, Sunday and week day, always the same the year round."
"On a closer examination of the working machine proper, we find in it, as a general rule, though often, no doubt, under very altered forms, the apparatus and tools used by the handicraftsman or manufacturing workman; with this difference, that instead of being human implements, they are the implements of a mechanism, or mechanical implements."
"The country labourer and his family who had often, in a way truly wonderful, preserved, under the foulest conditions, a thoroughness and purity of character, go, in these, utterly to the devil."
"As to the increasing dependence of labourers on the retail shopkeepers, this is the consequence of the frequent oscillations and interruptions of their employment."
"Wade with truth remarks:"
"And then, we must not forget, that the so called skilled labour does not occupy a large space in the field of national labour."
"In the first place, it must be observed that the machinery, while always entering as a whole into the labour process, enters into the value begetting process only by bits."
"The French Socialists have begun, not to theorize, but to act."
"Instead of the statistics of orphan asylums, andc."
"I give below a summary of the result."
"From the very outset it pre supposes even a difference between their use values and it has nothing whatever to do with their consumption, which only begins after the deal is closed and executed."
"But this, under the conditions supposed above, depends on the mass of labour power, or the number of labourers whom he exploits, and this number in its turn is determined by the amount of the variable capital advanced."
"Newman: Elements of Polit."
"On the other hand, the commodity that figures as the equivalent cannot at the same time assume the relative form."
"The Times answered the cotton lord as follows: Mr. Edmund Potter is so impressed with the exceptional and supreme importance of the cotton masters that, in order to preserve this class and perpetuate their profession, he would keep half a million of the labouring class confined in a great moral workhouse against their' will. '"
"Of these half hours, one yields .e."
"P., to his constituents, should become a great manufacturing country"
"No sooner had Everet in erected the first wool shearing machine that was driven by water power, than it was set on fire by people who had been thrown out of work."
"We now see that a certain minimum amount is a necessary condition for the conversion of numerous isolated and independent processes into one combined social process."
"The gallon loaf per week is what we suppose sufficient for the maintenance of every person in the family for the week; and the. is for clothes, and if the parish think proper to find clothes; the. is deducted."
"The trade is availing itself of this resource at present to an extent which is even discreditable."
"In fact these bourgeois economists instinctively saw, and rightly so, that it is very dangerous to stir too deeply the burning question of the origin of surplus value."
"Nevertheless, even with regard to material production, Greek: autarkeia as opposed to division of labour remained their ideal, Greek"
"Where nature is too lavish, she keeps him in hand, like a child in leading strings."
"In the th century the hunted out Gaels were forbidden to emigrate from the country, with a view to driving them by force to Glasgow and other manufacturing towns."
"Owing to their youth, they proved to be untrained for practical work and they left the scene with astonishing rapidity."
"And from this original sin dates the poverty of the great majority that, despite all its labor, has up to now nothing to sell but itself, and the wealth of the few that increases constantly although they have long ceased to work."
"The air makes bondage, was the cry in Germany, at the same time that the wind was making Holland free."
"In these backward countries, profits usually are high, for capital is scarce, the price of land is relatively low, wages are low, raw materials are cheap."
"This fact must therefore make itself plainly visible in the currency of money."
"Do you charge us with wanting to stop the exploitation of children by their parents?"
"Accumulation, therefore, presents itself on the one hand as increasing concentration of the means of production, and of the command over labour; on the other, as repulsion of many individual capitals one from another."
"Toutes ces causes le ruinent insensiblement, et"
"pr te son industrie,"
"Observations on the Effects of the Manufacturing System, nd Ed., London,.)"
"An ill considered policy drove prices still higher than would have been the case otherwise and nearly all these cartels perished ingloriously in the smash."
"In the chapters on the working day and machinery, the reader has seen under what circumstances the British working class created an intoxicating augmentation of wealth and power for the propertied classes."
"Hence the circuit made by one commodity in the course of its metamorphoses is inextricably mixed up with the circuits of other commodities."
"But so soon as the series of metamorphoses is interrupted, so soon as sales are not supplemented by subsequent purchases, money ceases to be mobilised; it is transformed, as Boisguillebert says, from meuble into immouble from movable into immovable, from coin into money."
"Spinning and weaving were, during the manufacturing period, split up into new species, and the implements were modified and improved; but the labour itself was in no way divided, and it retained its handicraft character."
"With those, for example, whose value rises, simultaneously with, and proportionally to, that of money, there is no alteration in price."
"When the system attained to a certain degree of development, it had to root up this ready made foundation, which in the meantime had been elaborated on the old lines, and to build up for itself a basis that should correspond to its methods of production."
"It would have been right in regard to the Economists and to many (if not the majority) of the practical workers of who applied the method of political agitation (to the extent that they applied it at all) almost exclusively on an economic basis."
"German trade with the Argentine is still more striking."
"As the person who makes a sale, he is a seller; as the person who makes a purchase, he is a buyer."
"In those countries which are but little developed, This applies chiefly to Germany where the landed aristocracy and squirearchy have large portions of their estates cultivated for their own account by stewards, and are, moreover, extensive beetroot sugar manufacturers and distillers of potato spirits."
"The object of all development of the productiveness of labour, within the limits of capitalist production, is to shorten that part of the working day, during which the workman must labour for his own benefit, and by that very shortening, to lengthen the other part of the day, during which he is at liberty to work gratis for the capitalist."
"In however, they were brought under the Act, and within sixteen months every impossibility had vanished."
"To permit, which is tantamount to compelling."
"It is only one of the forms of the policy of modern capitalism."
"On the other hand, it accomplishes this social organisation of the labour process only by riveting each labourer to a single fractional detail."
"The German imperialists attempt, in the magazine, Archives of World Economy, to follow the movements for national emancipation in the colonies, particularly, of course, in colonies other than those belonging to Germany."
"Human machinery will rust under inaction, oil and rub it as you may."
"This was Marx's idea, and yet there are people among us who strive in his name!"
"It is apt to be forgotten that the magnitudes of different things can be compared quantitatively, only when those magnitudes are expressed in terms of the same unit."
"And to make good infantry it requireth men bred, not in a servile or indigent fashion,"
"But the meal times consist of hour for breakfast, hours for dinner, and an hour for noon meate, .e., exactly twice as much as under the factory acts now in force."
"They were an absurd anomaly, since the capitalist regulated his factory by his private legislation,."
"The situation is far too complex, the play of world forces far too incalculable, to render this or any other single interpretation of the future very probable; but the influences which govern the imperialism of Western Europe today are moving in this direction and, unless counteracted or diverted, make towards some such consummation.'"
"Apparently Mr. has not heard, or if he has heard he has forgotten, that not only 'our,' but even western capitalism could not break the workers' connection with the land until it reached the stage of large scale machine industry."
"The sum of., paid for seed and manure, is constant capital, and we put it equal to zero."
"The raw material serves now merely as an absorbent of a definite quantity of labour."
"The value form of commodities, money, is therefore now the end and aim of a sale, and that owing to a social necessity springing out of the process of circulation itself."
"With the increase of capital, the difference between the capital employed and the capital consumed increases."
"Exchange, he says, cannot take place without equality, and equality not without commensurability."
"This is unskilful work, because, indeed, the owner of capital, after all, does something more than the merely creating and preserving of the same: namely, the abstention from the enjoyment of it, for which he demands,.g."
"He who converts his revenue abstains from the enjoyment which its expenditure would afford him."
"lich forgets to add that by the people of Holland were more over worked, poorer and more brutally oppressed than those of all the rest of Europe put together."
"The modern bourgeois society that has sprouted from the ruins of feudal society has not done away with class antagonisms."
"In this remarkable passage Marxism takes a tremendous step forward compared with The Communist Manifesto."
"it is alleged that miners are commonly worked on lease; that the duration of the lessee's interest (which in collieries is commonly for years), is not so long that he should deem it worth his while to create good accommodation for his labourers, and for the tradespeople and others whom the work attracts; that even if he were disposed to act liberally in the matter, this disposition would commonly be defeated by his landlord's tendency to fix on him, as ground rent, an exorbitant additional charge for the privilege of having on the surface of the ground the decent and comfortable village which the labourers of the subterranean property ought to inhabit, and that prohibitory price (if not actual prohibition) equally excludes others who might desire to build."
"Besides his popularization of Marxism, Kautsky is particularly well known in our country because of his controversy with the opportunists, headed by Bernstein."
"From a social point of view, the productiveness increases in the same ratio as the economy of labour, which, in its turn, includes not only economy of the means of production, but also the avoidance of all useless labour."
"They have therefore also certain essential features in common."
"The exploiting classes need political rule in order to maintain exploitation,.e."
"No doubt he is far from denying that temporary inconvenience may result from the capitalist use of machinery."
"They are spinners and weavers; they make soap and candles, as well as, in many cases, shoes and clothes for their own use."
"Hence a flow of people into the cotton weaving trade, till at length the weavers, called into existence by the Jenny, the throstle and the mule, were overwhelmed by the power loom."
"The variable capital annually laid out amounts, therefore, to."
"We sum them up once again, but only in so far as they afford new points of view in regard to accumulation."
"(Epitomised in part by Carey in The Slave Trade."
"From the foregoing investigation, the reader will see that this statement only means that the formation of capital must be possible even though the price and value of a commodity be the same; for its formation cannot be attributed to any deviation of the one from the other."
"Of those who share the national income among themselves, the one side (the workers) acquire every year a fresh right to their share by fresh work; the others (the capitalists) have already acquired, by work done originally, a permanent right to their share (Sismondi,., pp."
"A report from the Austro Hungarian Consul at Sao Paulo (Brazil) states: 'The construction of the Brazilian railways is being carried out chiefly by French, Belgian, British and German capital."
"Whether he also received the traditional drubbing with bamboos is not stated."
"In this first form of value, therefore, it is difficult to grasp the polar contrast."
"They perform this weary task, in London especially, for and hours at a stretch, during several days in the week, and frequently for hours, with only hours' rest for meals and sleep."
"These characters of seller and buyer are therefore not permanent, but attach themselves in turns to the various persons engaged in the circulation of commodities."
"There is also (when the same number of men are employed by one farmer on acres, instead of by ten farmers with acres a piece) an advantage in the proportion of servants, which will not so easily be understood but by practical men; for it is natural to say, as is to so are to"
"Their numbers have, in point of fact, increased by but relatively,.e., in proportion to the total capital advanced, they have diminished by for the capital would, in the old state of things, have employed instead of men."
"But himself, who has so excellently described the necessity for specialization, underestimates its importance, in our opinion, in the second part of the argument that we have quoted."
"An increase in the wages of labour does not necessarily imply an enhancement of the price of labour."
"As the use values, coat and linen, are combinations of special productive activities with cloth and yarn, while the values, coat and linen, are, on the other hand, mere homogeneous congelations of undifferentiated labour, so the labour embodied in these latter values does not count by virtue of its productive relation to cloth and yarn, but only as being expenditure of human labour power."
"felony, therefore, as in the old labour statutes."
"In this connexion we consider only its useful effect."
"Now, whether such a machine be merely a reproduction of a complicated manual implement, or a combination of various simple implements specialised by Manufacture, in either case, in the factory,.e."
"Inseparably connected with the fragmentation of production was the isolation of the producers themselves."
"Thirdly, just at that time the credits of a billion marks were voted for Germany's war preparations."
"As to man, his bodily height lessens if his due growth is interfered with, either by physical or local conditions."
"Who are the people who are generally summoned upon these juries?"
"Conservation, in an unaltered form, of the old modes of production was on the contrary the first condition of existence for all earlier industrial classes."
"Jacob gives the following calculation for the year."
"All rules of control, the publication of balance sheets, the drawing up of balance sheets according to a definite form, the public auditing of accounts, the things about which well intentioned professors and officials that is, those imbued with the good intention of defending and embellishing capitalism dis course to the public, are of no avail."
"The power loom was at first made chiefly of wood; in its improved modern form it is made of iron."
"If, now, the working day be lengthened by hours and the price of labour power remain unaltered, the surplus value increases both absolutely and relatively."
"The state will be able to wither away completely when society can apply the rule: 'From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs,'.e."
"For the latter, the cost of apprenticeship vanishes; for the former, it diminishes, compared with that of artificers, in consequence of the functions being simplified."
"What opinion should we have of a chemist, who, instead of studying the actual laws of the molecular changes in the composition and decomposition of matter, and on that foundation solving definite problems, claimed to regulate the composition and decomposition of matter by means of the eternal ideas, of naturalit and affinit"
"At that time, indeed, we had astonishingly few forces, and it was perfectly natural and legitimate then to resolve to go exclusively among the workers, and severely condemn any deviation from this."
"He who forgets his obligation to be in advance of everybody in bringing up, sharpening and solving every general democratic problem is not a Social Democrat. '"
"No; miles away, so that he walks daily, to and fro, miles."
"And so, in the first phase of communist society (generally called socialism) '"
"But the collective labourer, who constitutes the living mechanism of manufacture, is made up solely of such specialised detail labourers."
"Whence this difference in their values?"
"The transfer of industry from one place to another takes place only in the form of the migration of individual small producers who establish small trades in the outlying parts of the state."
"They therefore acted and transacted before they thought."
"this economy now shows its antagonistic and murderous side more and more in a given branch of industry, the less the social productive power of labour and the technical basis for a combination of processes are developed in that branch."
"It is mere child's play for it to crush a block of granite into powder, yet it is no less capable of driving, with a succession of light taps, a nail into a piece of soft wood."
"beeynge sodainely thruste owte, they be constrayned to sell it for a thing of nought."
"Combination,' writes Hilferding, 'levels out the fluctuations of trade and therefore assures to the combined enterprises a more stable rate of profit."
"What Lucretius says is self evident; nil posse creari de nihilo, out of nothing, nothing can be created."
"Portugal is an independent sovereign state."
"Dr. Simon, medical officer of the Privy Council, in his official Report says: In apology for the wretched household accommodation."
"and that collected by Sub lnspector."
"Notwithstanding this, however, agricultural capitalism in Russia, in its historical significance, is a powerful progressive factor."
"All these are hereby thrown out of their livings with their families and many other families who were chiefly employed and supported by them."
"The ancient Assyrian, Egyptian, and other collections in London, and in other European capitals, make us eye witnesses of the modes of carrying on that co operative labour."
"of Fact., Oct., pp. .)"
"When machinery is applied to any of the preliminary or intermediate stages through which the subject of labour has to pass on its way to completion, there is an increased yield of material in those stages, and simultaneously an increased demand for labour in the handicrafts or manufactures supplied by the produce of the machines."
"Thus, for instance, in the appendix of my last annual report, Dr. Ord, reporting on an outbreak of fever at Wing, in Buckinghamshire, mentions how a young man who had come thither from Wingrave with fever, in the first days of his illness slept in a room with nine other persons."
"an average labourer can live, is years, the value of my labour power, which you pay me from day to day is or of its total value."
"If by chance they are revolutionary, they are so only in view of their impending transfer into the proletariat, they thus defend not their present, but their future interests, they desert their own standpoint to place themselves at that of the proletariat."
"Several 'minders' have been fined for this offence, but without much general benefit."
"In contact with German social conditions, this French literature lost all its immediate practical significance, and assumed a purely literary aspect."
"This question was raised quite openly and definitely not only in American literature after the Spanish American War, and in English literature after the Boer War, at the very end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth; not only has German literature, which always 'jealously' watches 'British imperialism,' systematically given its appraisal of this fact, but it has been raised in French bourgeois literature in terms as wide and as clear as are possible from the bourgeois point of view."
"According to the census of the population of England and Wales was of these, males, and females."
"Shamefacedly hiding the struggle for reforms behind the pompous thesis 'giving the economic struggle itself a political character,' Martynov advanced, as if it were a special point, exclusively economic (in fact, exclusively factory) reforms."
"Our next visit was to an iron labourer's wife, whose husband had worked in the yards."
"Consequently, he takes less time in doing it, than the artificer who performs a whole series of operations in succession."
"this is the essence of the 'honest' coalition."
"Before the war the capital invested abroad by the three principal countries amounted to between and billion francs."
"A practical analysis of this question will be found in the Moscow Sanitary Statistics, compiled by Mr. Dementyev, on the 'factory workers' connection with agriculture.'"
"In a word, specialization necessarily presupposes centralization, and in its turn imperatively calls for it."
"Hence, the diminished expenditure of labour in the house is accompanied by an increased expenditure of money."
"(Leading article in Rabochaya Mysl, No. .)"
"As we have already pointed out many times, the economic struggle is a trade struggle, and for that reason it requires that the workers be organized according to trade and not only according to their place of employment."
"The Hansard version runs: 'Again, and yet more at large what is human life, but, in the majority of cases, a struggle for existence.'"
"Simple co operation is always the prevailing form, in those branches of production in which capital operates on a large scale, and division of labour and machinery play but a subordinate part."
"The development, perfection and strengthening of the bureaucratic and military apparatus proceeded during all the numerous bourgeois revolutions which Europe has witnessed since the fall of feudalism."
"A very good portrait of this Edmund Burke, during his liberal time, is to be found in the writings of the Rev. Mr. Tucker."
"We exposed the 'senseless dreams' and the 'lying hypocrisy' of the cunning liberals of Rossiya"
"Kautsky's pamphlet must serve as a measure of comparison between what German Social Democracy promised to be before the imperialist war and the depth of degradation to which it fell"
"of the population of England and Wales in decimal numbers: percent."
"Une valeur en productions n'a"
"Hence they were noted with exultation as especially worthy of remark and as wonders by the far seeing amds du commerce, and recommended as modds for their own time and for posterity."
"Still, this was not enough."
"The Act of changed the hours' time from a.m. to .m., into the hours from a.m. to.m."
"And lastly, it serves as the universally recognised embodiment of social wealth, whenever the question is not of buying or paying, but of transferring wealth from one country to another, and whenever this transference in the form of commodities is rendered impossible, either by special conjunctures in the markets or by the purpose itself that is intended."
"This determined defense of the most pronounced Bernsteinists is not supported by any kind of argument"
"The question therefore arises, how much money this sphere constantly absorbs?"
"Every other commodity now becomes a mirror of the linen's value."
"But, as a matter of fact, surplus value had at that time, thanks to the increased intensity of labour, and to the prolongation of the working day, increased both in absolute and relative magnitude."
"Thirdly, capitalism squeezes out the forms of personal dependence that were an inseparable part of preceding systems of economy."
"The value of them (the necessaries of life), when they are exchanged the one for another, is regulated by the quantity of labour necessarily required, and commonly taken in producing them."
"Let it change the language, and for that it has only to address itself to the Academy and ask it for a new edition of its dictionary."
"Bedrooms about feet long and broad, although many are smaller than this."
"These small thefts of capital from the labourer's meal and recreation time, the factory inspectors also designate as petty pilferings of minutes, snatching a few minutes, or, as the labourers technically called them, nibbling and cribbling at meal times."
"(Compare this statement made in October with the controversy between the 'Decembrists' and the young members in the beginning of.)"
"We shall deal with these questions."
"What, therefore, the wage labourer appropriates by means of his labour, merely suffices to prolong and reproduce a bare existence."
"Such a beginning, on the basis of large scale production, will of itself lead to the gradual 'withering away' of all bureaucracy, to the gradual creation of an order, order without quotation marks, which will be different from wage slavery, an order in which the functions of control and accounting becoming more and more simple will be performed by each in turn, will then become a habit and will finally die out as the special functions of a special stratum of the population."
"Suppose that a capitalist pays for a day's labour power at its value; then the right to use that power for a day belongs to him, just as much as the right to use any other commodity, such as a horse that he has hired for the day."
"The working day creates a greater or less amount of value in proportion to its length thus, a variable and not a constant quantity of value. .)"
"The rate of accumulation lessens; but with its lessening, the primary cause of that lessening vanishes,.e., the disproportion between capital and exploitable labour power."
"We must not even think of destroying the old state machine; how can we do without Ministries and without officials?'"
"The latter, combined with the more intense strain on the workman, have had the effect, that at least as much is produced in the shortened (by two hours or one sixth)"
"The English ateliers nationaux of and the following years, established for the benefit of the destitute cotton operatives, differ from the French of in this, that in the latter the workmen had to do unproductive work at the expense of the state, in the former they had to do productive municipal work to the advantage of the bourgeois, and that, too, cheaper than the regular workmen, with whom they were thus thrown into competition."
"Domination and violence that is associated with it such are the relationships that are most typical of the 'latest phase of capitalist development'; this is what must inevitably result, and has resulted, from the formation of all powerful economic monopolies."
"And our business as Social Democratic publicists is to deepen, to expand and intensify political exposures and political agitation."
"On the eve of the crisis, the bourgeois, with the self sufficiency that springs from intoxicating prosperity, declares money to be a vain imagination."
"The adaptation of power to machinery heretofore moved by hand, is almost of daily occurrence."
"Ce travail de surveillance qui servirait peut tre d'utile gymnastique l'intelligence,"
"So soon as it monopolises this position in the expression of value for the world of commodities, it becomes the money commodity, and then, and not till then, does form become distinct from form, and the general form of value become changed into the money form."
"The proletariat, the lowest stratum of our present society, cannot stir, cannot raise itself up, without the whole superincumbent strata of official society being sprung into the air."
"first, and principally, in regard to means of production (the productive consumption market), for the well to do peasant tries to convert into capital the means of production he 'collects' from the 'impoverished' landlords as well as from the ruined peasant."
"While hoarding, as a distinct mode of acquiring riches, vanishes with the progress of civil society, the formation of reserves of the means of payment grows with that progress."
"Here the movement of profit, rent of land, andc."
"The small banks are being squeezed out by the big banks, of which nine concentrate in their own hands almost half the total deposits."
"il se peut qu'une nation soit plus riche lorsque ses produits diminuent de valeur, quoique la richesse soit,de la valeur."
"Hence, the workers leave, not only because they cannot find 'local occupations,' but also because they strive to go to those places where conditions are better."
"Instead of an analysis of imperialism and an exposure of the depths of its contradictions, we have nothing but a reformist 'pious wish' to waive it aside, to evade it."
"And when the mass revolutionary movement of the proletariat burst forth, Marx, in spite of the failure of that movement, in spite of its short life and its patent weakness, began to study the political forms that it had disclosed."
"Dr. Simon, the chief medical officer of the Privy Council and the official editor of the Public Health Reports, says: In my fourth Report I showed, how it is practically impossible for the workpeople to insist upon that which is their first sanitary right,"
"Commodity owners never equate their own commodities to those of others, and exchange them on a large scale, without different kinds of commodities belonging to different owners being exchangeable for, and equated as values to, one and the same special article."
"Remember that we stand so low on the plane of organization that the very idea that we could rise too high is absurd!."
"They have reduced Marxism to such a state of wretched 'liberal' distortion that nothing exists for them beyond the antithesis between bourgeois revolution and proletarian revolution and even this antithesis they interpret in an entirely lifeless way."
"The history of this expropriation, in different countries, assumes different aspects, and runs through its various phases in different orders of succession, nd at different periods."
"Then again, the labour power itself must be of average efficacy."
"It will be remembered that if through the introduction of new, or the extension of old, machinery, a portion of variable capital is transformed into constant, the economic apologist interprets this operation which fixes capital and by that very act sets labourers free, in exactly the opposite way, pretending that it sets free capital for the labourers."
"The essential division is, into workmen who are actually employed on the machines (among whom are included a few who look after the engine), and into mere attendants (almost exclusively children) of these workmen."
"The separation of property from labour has become the necessary consequence of a law that apparently originated in their identity."
"In, Scotland, the abolition of serfdom took place some centuries later than in England."
"Similarly, these authors do not 'repudiate' politics, they merely say (merely!), repeating what was said by."
"And yet, you believe that the production of wealth, which arises from the labour of the workpeople, consists in the augmentation of the exchange value of their products."
"The dyes, toci, were chiefly extracted by the women from trees, shrubs and herbs."
"The cottages generally crouch under some bank, or often in a ravine or quarry, and none but the smallest sheep and native cattle can live on the pastures."
"They note the ferment and protest movements in India, the movement in Natal (South Africa), the movements in the Dutch East Indies, etc."
"Finally, it is a systematic process, which does not simply make a passing gap in the population, but sucks out of it every year more people than are replaced by the births, so that the absolute level of the population falls year by year."
"The same state of things went on quietly until the Swing riots, in revealed to us (i.e., the ruling classes) by the light of blazing corn stacks, that misery and black mutinous discontent smouldered quite as fiercely under the surface of agricultural as of manufacturing England."
"From little occupiers of land, they are reduced to the state of day labourers and hirelings; and, at the same time, their subsistence in that state has become more difficult."
"This liberalism, so full of consideration for capital, was the more noteworthy as."
"The centralisation will, however, be best seen from a short analysis of the Income Tax Schedule (profits, exclusive of farms, andc.), in the years and."
"These obstructions are vanishing day by day."
"Leach deposes: Last winter six out of nineteen girls were away from ill health at one time from over work."
"As evidence, take the following table from his report: Pecentage of Adult Males Engaged in Manufactures Death rate from Pulmonary Affections per Males Name of District ."
"Would you prohibit the employment of women in factories also?"
"My attention, says an English factory inspector, was drawn to an advertisement in the local paper of one of the most important manufacturing towns of my district, of which the following is a copy: Wanted, to young persons, not younger than what can pass for years."
"It is of course understood that, by Value of the Product is meant only the value newly created in a working day, the constant part of the value of the product being excluded."
"On the other hand, the value and mass of the means of production set in motion by a given quantity of labour increase as the labour becomes more productive."
"In both these cases, the spinner puts the same quantity of labour into a pound of cotton, and therefore adds as much value, as he did before the change in the value: he also produces a given weight of yarn in the same time as he did before."
"So long as, in a given branch of industry, the factory system extends itself at the expense of the old handicrafts or of manufacture, the result is as sure as is the result of an encounter between an army furnished with breach loaders, and one armed with bows and arrows."
"The Christian religion,.g."
"Such expressions of relations in general, called by Hegel reflex categories, form a very curious class."
"It is true that if the weaver, after buying the Bible, sell more linen, money comes back into his hands."
"In Book which treats of the history of the theory, it will be more clearly seen, that the production of surplus value has at all times been made, by classical political economists, the distinguishing characteristic of the productive labourer."
"Thus the proletariat is recruited from all classes of the population."
"Although the manuscript was at the printer by October the book itself did not appear in St. Petersburg until September apparently as a result of the general confusion and disorganization in Russia during this period."
"The isolated group of labourers to whom any particular detail function is assigned, is made up of homogeneous elements, and is one of the constituent parts of the total mechanism."
"Here the landlords, in view of the increasing population, have destroyed about percent."
"This is the absolute general law of capitalist accumulation."
"(Sir Edward West, Price of Corn and Wages of Labour, London,. .)"
"Soon, however, this command over abnormal quantities of unpaid labour,.e., quantities in excess of the average social amount, becomes a source of competition amongst the capitalists themselves."
", worn away in the process."
"At this moment, March, the Indian and Chinese market is again overstocked by the consignments of the British cotton manufacturers."
"The turn towards criticism was accompanied by the turn towards Economism that was taken by Social Democratic practical workers."
"There is also no doubt that such revolutionary regents, the final result of which is the abolition of the old division of labour, are diametrically opposed to the capitalistic form of production, and to the economic status of the labourer corresponding to that form."
"and of Iskra), to which, in all probability, the author of the letter refers, he will find that these articl deal with the attitude of the government towards the 'mild agitation of the feudal bureaucratic Zemstvo,' and towards the 'independent activity of even the propertied classes.'"
"The manufacturers elected him as their champion, not only against the newly passed Factory Act, but against the still more menacing Ten hours' agitation."
"The surplus labour would in this case be prolonged only by an overstepping of its normal limits; itsdomain would be extended only by a usurpation of part of thedomain of necessary labour time."
"As the coat and the linen are two qualitatively different use values, so also are the two forms of labour that produce them, tailoring and weaving."
"About the yeomanry had disappeared, and so had, in the last decade of the th century, the last trace of the common land of the agricultural labourer."
"It is obvious that a bank which stands at the head of such a group and which enters into agreement with a half dozen other banks only slightly smaller than itself for the purpose of conducting big and profitable operations like floating state loans is no longer a mere 'intermediary' but a combine of a handful of monopolists."
"Society can no longer live under this bourgeoisie, in other words, its existence is no longer compatible with society."
"The data were given him by an English manager until recently employed there."
"As the number of labourers increases, the productive power of society augments in the compound ratio of that increase, multiplied by the effects of the division of labour."
"Since, before entering on the process, his own labour has already been alienated from himself by the sale of his labour power, has been appropriated by the capitalist and incorporated with capital, it must, during the process, be realised in a product that does not belong to him."
"When comparing the mode of production of isolated peasants and artisans with production by slave labour, the political economist counts this labour of superintendence among the faux frais of production."
"The latter kind is due to the elements."
"And whether it had been otherwise possible for England, to have carried on her Woollen Manufacture to so great a perfection?"
"Only a portion, and perhaps, not a large portion of the wealth which is annually saved in this country, is invested in our own industry."
"Only read Diodorus Siculus."
"If its owner therefore offers it for sale at three shillings a day, its selling price is equal to its value, and according to our supposition, our friend Moneybags, who is intent upon converting his three shillings into capital, pays this value."
"It will not be forgotten that this same capital sings quite another song, under ordinary circumstances, when there is a question of reducing wages."
"On the other hand, if we look at the workshop as a whole, we see the raw material in all the stages of its production at the same time."
"We are compelled to ask, therefore: where is this notorious difference between the 'village commune' peasant and the Baltic laborer?"
"In the latter case we have an enormous increase in the constant capital, that is represented by the total value of the means of production used, and at the same time a great reduction in the variable capital, invested in labour power."
"Like every other increase in the productiveness of labour, machinery is intended to cheapen commodities, and, by shortening that portion of the working day, in which the labourer works for himself, to lengthen the other portion that he gives, without an equivalent, to the capitalist."
"These universal political exposures are an essential and fundamental condition for training the masses in revolutionary activity."
", found its immediate pretext (not its cause, for legislation of this kind lasts centuries after the pretext for it has disappeared) in the great plague that decimated the people, so that, as a Tory writer says, The difficulty of getting men to work on reasonable terms (i.e., at a price that left their employers a reasonable quantity of surplus labour) grew to such a height as to be quite intolerable."
"Marx not only scrupulously takes into account the inevitable inequality of men; he also takes into account the fact that the mere conversion of the means of production into the common property of the whole of society (generally called 'socialism') does not remove the defects of distribution and the inequality of 'bourgeois right' which continue to prevail as long as the products are divided 'according to the amount of work performed.'"
"According to Mr. Baynes, operatives are required for the mule spindles, inclusive of preparation machinery, that are driven by one horse power; each self acting mule spindle, working ten hours, produces ounces of yarn (average number of thickness); consequently operatives spin weekly lbs."
"Before he can apply this leisure time productively for himself, a whole series of historical events is required; before he spends it in surplus labour for strangers, compulsion is necessary."
"But all methods for the production of surplus value are at the same time methods of accumulation; and every extension of accumulation becomes again a means for the development of those methods."
"In including the poor peasant in the category of rural proletariat we are not suggesting anything new."
"London, the Rev. Nathaniel Forster,., in An Enquiry into the Causes of the Present High Price of Provisions,' London, Dr. Price, and especially Postlethwayt, as well in the supplement to his ``Universal Dictionary of Trade and Commerce, as in his Great Bntain's Commercial Interest explained and improved."
"This simple calculation is very frequently lost sight of by those practical workers who work actively, almost exclusively, on local publications (unfortunately this is the case even now in the overwhelming majority of cases), as well as by the publicists who display an astonishing quixotism on this question."
"So the League's resolution was directed against Russian Bernsteinism?"
", to the contest between Postlethwayt whose Dictionary of Trade then had the same reputation as the kindred works of MacCulloch and MacGregor to day, and the author (already quoted) of the Essay on Trade and Commerce."
"It is a debatable point, from the standpoint of the interests of the German Party, whether diplomacy was appropriate and whether, in this case, a bad peace is better than a good quarrel; in short, opinions may differ in regard to the expediency, or not, of the methods employed to reject Bernsteinism, but one cannot fail to see the fact that the German Party did reject Bernsteinism on two occasions."
"We professional revolutionaries must continue, and will continue, this kind of 'pushing,' and a hundred times more forcibly than we have done hitherto."
"Engels continues: 'As against the ancient gentile organization, the primary distinguishing feature of the state is the division of the subjects of the state according to territory.'"
"The local ratepayers themselves are driven by the parochial charges to the verge of pauperism."
"We attach cardinal importance to this conclusion not only on the question of capitalism in Russia, but also on the question of the significance of the Narodnik doctrine in general."
"The rent of the cottage is a part of the wages."
"it is added, scarcely a single article had been purchased, except the awl, needle, thimble, and a very few parts of the iron work employed in the weaving."
"In every case he registers with the dogmatism of a disciple, the confusion of his master's thoughts."
"that now a days a pound (sterling), which is the unit of the English standard of money, is equal to about a quarter of an ounce of gold."
"Undoubtedly; it would have superseded them much more than it has done, if the hand loom weavers were not enabled to submit to a reduction of wages.' '"
"According to the experiments of Valentin and Brunner, it appears that a healthy man gives off about cubic inches of carbonic acid per hour; this would give about ounces of solid carbon thrown off from the lungs in hours."
"A locomotive, for instance, consists of more than independent parts."
", is the mere result of No."
"During the short boom of the system of cartels was widely resorted to in order to take advantage of the favorable business conditions."
"all persons employed in agriculture (landlords, farmers, gardeners, shepherds, andc."
"The bourgeois economist whose narrow mind is unable to separate the form of appearance from the thing that appears, shuts his eyes to the fact, that it is but"
"The characteristic feature of imperialism is precisely that it strives to annex not only agricultural regions, but even highly industrialized regions (German appetite for Belgium; French appetite for Lorraine), because the fact that the world is already partitioned obliges those contemplating a new partition to stretch out their hands to any kind of territory, and because an essential feature of imperialism is the rivalry between a number of great powers in the striving for hegemony,.e., for the conquest of territory, not so much directly for themselves, as to weaken the adversary and undermine his hegemony."
"(If the master break the contract, he can be proceeded against only in a civil action, and risks nothing but money damages.)"
"Eden is as to the horrors of the expropriation of the agricultural population from the soil, from the last third of the th century to his own time; with all the self satisfaction with which he rejoices in this process, essential for establishing capitalistic agriculture and the due proportion between arable and pasture land he does not show, however, the same economic insight in respect to the necessity of child stealing and child slavery for the transformation of manufacturing exploitation into factory exploitation, and the establishment of the true relation between capital and labour power."
"Burke's Pamphlet on the ducal house of Bedford, whose offshoot was Lord John Russell, the tomtit of Liberalism."
"In order that we may do this, the intellectuals must talk to us less of what we already know, and tell us more about what we do not know and what we can never learn from our factory and 'economic' experience, that is, you must give us political knowledge."
"They are indeed kept in misery."
"The neglect in its centre, becomes mortification at its extremities, north and south, where the houses are rotting to pieces."
", which are not consumed, and therefore not reproduced, or replaced by new ones of the same kind, until after long periods of time."
"In so far as the payments balance one another, money functions only ideally as money of account, as a measure of value."
"And gradually, for many years past, the state of the labourer in these respects has been deteriorating, house room being now greatly more difficult for him to find, and, when found, greatly less suitable to his needs than, perhaps, for centuries had been the case."
"Thus it became possible to produce the forms of the individual parts of machinery with a degree of ease, accuracy, and speed, that no accumulated experience of the hand of the most skilled workman could give."
"The Communists do not form a separate party opposed to other working class parties."
"Although it did not achieve its aim, he regarded the mass revolutionary movement as a historic experiment of gigantic importance, as an advance of the world proletarian revolution, as a practical step that was more important than hundreds of programs and discussions."
"The full priced denounced their rivals before the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry:"
"But never, under any conditions, can it the proletarian victory over a hostile government lead to the destruction of the state power; it can lead only to a certain shifting Verschiebung of the relation of forces within the state power."
"In the conditions of the proletariat, those of old society at large are already virtually swamped."
"The material wear and tear of a machine is of two kinds."
"But the price of corn is seven times, and of flesh meat and raiment about fifteen times higher."
"In Limerick, where the grievances of the journeymen are demonstrated to be excessive, the movement has been defeated by the opposition of the master bakers, the miller bakers being the greatest opponents."
"It is only the social character of the property that is changed."
"L'esprit des lois, c'est la propri."
"The English Factory Acts, to Section The Struggle for the Normal Working Day."
"To reduce the long trudges over these wide plains, the beautiful pastures of Leicester and Northampton, the shepherd used to get a cottage on the farm."
"Of poverty, when the movement has not yet developed the forces for large scale production, and continues to flounder in primitive ways and in 'the petty details of factory life.'"
"In order that the law of supply and demand may not be broken, these gentlemen draw their labour supply."
"Cambridge and London, ."
"In the first place then we equate the constant capital to zero."
"When writing faverse the author evidently meant direct."
"This question is far more important than the celebrated question of Sir Robert Peel to the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce: What is a pound?"
"(J. Mill, El ments, andc."
"Scotland Ireland United Kingdom Number of Spindles England and Wales"
"The employers avail themselves of the habitual irregularity in the homework, when any extra work is wanted at a push, so that the work goes on till"
"sed statim postquam quis uxorem duxerit socius collegii desinat esse."
"It is extremely instructive to note that, in speaking of the functions of the officials who are necessary for the Commune and for proletarian democracy, Marx compares them to the workers of 'every other employer,' that is, of the ordinary capitalist enterprise, with its 'workmen and managers.'"
"The second is the establishment of a public power, which is no longer directly identical with the population organizing itself as an armed power."
"What does this power mainly consist of?"
"Cellars cellar cellar cellar cellar persons persons persons persons persons persons persons adults persons families persons"
"Thinking it was a mistake, he applied to the time keeper,."
"he would believe almost anything they said."
"And while the old fashioned folk are tending their flower pot crops, we must prepare reapers, not only to cut down the tares of today, but also to reap the wheat of tomorrow."
"In Germany two powerful companies have raised themselves to first rank, the Hamburg Amerika and the Nord Deutscher Lloyd, each having a capital of marks in stocks and bonds, and possessing to million marks worth of shipping tonnage."
"It is characterised by maximum of working time, and minimum of wages."
"Just as little as the commodities that the capitalist buys with a part of the surplus value for his own consumption, serve the purpose of production and of creation of value, so little is the labour that he buys for the satisfaction of his natural and social requirements, productive labour."
"The unevenness in the rate of expansion of colonial possessions is very marked."
"the changes of the latter, the organic composition of capital."
"as formerly, to constitute, in legal phrase, a 'Factory.'"
"Is it not evident that it means the political training of the workers, revealing to them all the aspects of our despicable autocracy?"
"It is not our business to grow wheat in flower pots."
"The active participation of the broad masses in the dissemination of illegal literature will not diminish because a dozen professional revolutionaries centralize the secret part of the work; on the contrary, it will increase tenfold."
"Lenin believed that revolution must be carefully and systematically planned and carried through; he scorned those who anticipated 'spontaneous' revolution by the people themselves."
"The English Factory Inspector, Alexander Redgrave, in his report of Oct. st, proves by comparative statistics with continental states, that in spite of lower wages and much longer working time, continental labour is, in proportion to the product, dearer than English."
"Read the works of the thoroughly scientific (and 'thoroughly' opportunist)"
"We strongly recommend this book to the reader which our Narodniki press has strenuously tried to hush up."
"(See An Inquiry into those Principles Respecting the Nature of Demand and the Necessity of Consumption, lately advocated by Mr. Malthus, andc."
"Lond. .) You take my life When you do take the means whereby I live."
"Turning now to the Narodnik economists, with whose representatives we have constantly had to enter into controversy, we may sum up our differences with them in the following manner: First, we cannot but regard the Narodniks' conception of the process of development of capitalism in Russia and their conception of the system of economic relationships that existed in Russia before the rise of capitalism as being absolutely wrong."
"The fact that the owner of the commodities, under the designation of producer, sells them over their value, and under the designation of consumer, pays too much for them, does not carry us a single step further."
"The result is bourgeois reformism instead of Marxism."
"The French chemist, Chevallier, in his treatise on the sophistications of commodities, enumerates for many of the or more articles which he passes in review, different methods of adulteration."
"Stopping supplies of raw materials ('one of the most important methods of compelling adherence to the cartel'); Stopping the supply of labor by means of 'alliances' (i.e., of agreements between employers and the trade unions by which the latter permit their members to work only in trustified enterprises); Cutting off deliveries; Closing of trade outlets; Agreements with the buyers, by which the latter undertake to trade only with the cartels; The systematic lowering of prices to ruin 'outside' firms,.e., those who refuse to submit to the trust."
"That the natural increase of the number of labourers does not satisfy the requirements of the accumulation of capital, and yet all the time is in excess of them, is a contradiction inherent to the movement of capital itself."
"Never mind, it will 'pass muster,' if only the party develops, if only the scientific inexactness of its name is not hidden from it and does not hinder its development in the right direction!"
"The tender hearted English Parliament long affected to shrink from taking this step."
"Certainly the possibility of reducing cost of production and increasing profits by introducing technical improvements is an influence in the direction of change."
"When the same transactions are continually repeated between the same persons, the conditions of sale are regulated in accordance with the conditions of production."
"The Commune, which was no longer a state in the proper sense of the word' this is Engels' most important theoretical statement."
"I demand the normal working day because I, like every other seller, demand the value of my commodity."
"The insignificant dimensions of the farm on a small patch of land, and, moreover, a farm in a state of ruin (this is particularly evidenced by the letting of land), the inability to exist without selling labor power (the 'trades' of the poor peasant), an extremely low standard of living, probably lower than that of the laborer without an allotment these are the distinguishing features of this type."
"To this is to be added scanty school furniture, deficiency of books, and other materials for teaching, and the depressing effect upon the poor children themselves of a close, noisome atmosphere."
"Rogier, the minister, informed me that children's labour is limited neither by a general law nor by any local regulations; that the Government, during the last three years, intended in every session to propose a bill on the subject, but always found an insuperable obstacle in the jealous opposition to any legislation in contradiction with the principle of perfect freedom of labour."
"But the brave Gaels must expiate yet more bitterly their idolatry, romantic and of the mountains, for the great men of the clan."
"The imperialist ideology also permeates the working class."
"Where is the party in opposition that has not been decried as Communistic by its opponents in power?"
"(at all events it is already heralded by many signs)."
"To the utter indignation of all present, they were each mulcted in a fine of."
"of yarn can be made."
"A spectre is haunting Europe the spectre of Communism."
"years later, Order was wanting in manufacture based on the scholastic dogma of division of labour, and Arkwright created order."
"French banks, per cent; English, per cent; German, percent."
"The master can sell him, bequeath him, let him out on hire as a slave, just as any other personal chattel or cattle."
"Quant la difficult qu' ve Mr. Ricardo"
"The Act comprises: Textile Mills."
"by whose labour and skill such great results have been achieved."
"It is not till the th Book, on the Revenue of the State, that he reproduces Ferguson."
"the first Utopia is a Factory Act, the second figures as an official phrase in all Factory Acts, the third is already being used as a cloak for reactionary humbug."
"With the Boer War fresh in his mind, Hobson describes the connection between imperialism, and the interests of the 'financiers,' the growing profits from war contracts, etc., and writes as follows: 'While the directors of this definitely parasitic policy are capitalists, the same motives appeal to special classes of the workers."
"While in politically free countries it is often argued in defense of numerous local newspapers that the cost of printing by local workers is low and that the local population can be kept more fully and quickly informed, experience has shown that in Russia this argument can be used against local newspapers."
"whether the present imperialist policy cannot be supplanted by a new, ultra imperialist policy, which will introduce the joint exploitation of the world by internationally united finance capital in place of the mutual rivalries of national finance capital."
"When the production of commodities has sufficiently extended itself, money begins to serve as the means of payment beyond the sphere of the circulation of commodities."
"For instance, there is within my district one occupier who, within the same curtilage, is at the same time a bleacher and dyer under the Bleaching and Dyeing Works Act, a printer under the Print Works Act, and a finisher under the Factory Act."
"Fifty thousand workpeople, who had previously lived by carding wool, petitioned Parliament against Arkwright's scribbling mills and carding engines."
"I recall a conversation I once had with a fairly consistent Economist, with whom I had not been previously acquainted."
"The fundamental economic factor in this process is the substitution of capitalist monopolies for capitalist free competition."
"and find accommodation for two or three lodgers."
"were capitalised and percent."
"England became a capitalist country before any other, and in the middle of the nineteenth century, having adopted free trade, claimed to be the 'workshop of the world,' the great purveyor of manufactured goods to all other countries, which in exchange were to keep her supplied with raw materials."
"He becomes a pauper, and pauperism develops more rapidly than population and wealth."
"In Mr. and Mrs. Webb's book on trade unionism, there is an interesting chapter entitled 'Primitive Democracy.'"
"Kautsky acts exactly like a swindler when he ignores the perfectly well known arguments of Marx and Engels on the Commune and pulls out a quotation which has nothing to do with the case."
"The possessor of money does find on the market such a special commodity in capacity for labour or labour power."
"The working men have no country."
"Tremenheere, commissioner to examine into the grievances complained of by the journeymen bakers andc., Lond.)"
"In the first period of the mass movement, an attempt is made by local Party workers to publish an all Russian journal, Rabochaya Gazeta."
"The creation of surplus value, and therefore the conversion of money into capital, can consequently be explained neither on the assumption that commodities are sold above their value, nor that they are bought below their value."
"This power being higher value, its consumption is labour of a higher class, labour that creates in equal times proportionally higher values than unskilled labour does."
"The British Parliament proclaimed bloodhounds and scalping as means that God and Nature had given into its hand."
"This was too difficult."
"This is perceived by the fanatical representative of the industrial bourgeoisie of the th century, the author of the Essay on Trade and Commerce often quoted by us, although he puts the matter in a confused way: It is the quantity of labour and not the price of it (he means by this the nominal daily or weekly wages) that is determined by the price of provisions and other necessaries: reduce the price of necessaries very low, and of course you reduce the quantity of labour in proportion."
"At the same time the progress of accumulation increases the material amenable to centralisation,.e."
"The general average (of the cost of each prisoner in the different prisons during the period, has been centimes for all prisons."
"Thus, finance capital, almost literally, one might say, spreads its net over all countries of the world."
"On the other hand, this fact is a new lever in economising the means of payment."
"How then, to find this price,.e."
"It not only stands with its feet on the ground, but, in relation to all other commodities, it stands on its head, and evolves out of its wooden brain grotesque ideas, far more wonderful than table turning ever was."
"The working day of hours embodies itself,.g."
"In chapter we showed the strata of the peasantry from which this army is recruited and in subsequent chapters the main occupations for which capital keeps this army in reserve were indicated."
"This primitive accumulation plays in Political Economy about the same part as original sin in theology."
"We only wish to make it understood (with Narcissus Tuporylov) that all that which 'does not promise palpable results' is merely a 'hollow sound.'"
"Each of these artificers (with the help, perhaps, of one or two apprentices), makes the entire commodity, and he consequently performs in succession all the operations necessary for its production."
"What makes them exchangeable is the mutual desire of their owners to alienate them."
", in the Engineering Trade of London, a customary trick is the selecting of a man who possesses superior physical strength and quickness, as the principal of several workmen, and paying him an additional rate, by the quarter or otherwise, with the understanding that he is to exert himself to the utmost to induce the others, who are only paid the ordinary wages, to keep up to him."
"But the multitude of small establishments, the preservation of contacts with the land, the preservation of tradition in production and in the whole system of life, all this creates a mass of intermediary elements between the extremes of manufacture and retards the development of these extremes."
"The spindles, including preparation machinery, and motive power, cost, we will assume, per spindle, amounting to a total of."
"The character and tendency of the process, is therefore not due to any qualitative difference between its extremes, both being money, but solely to their quantitative difference."
"The world has become divided into a handful of money lending states on the one side, and a vast majority of debtor states on the other. '"
"Its use value becomes distinguished from its exchange value."
"And what sort of workmanship could we expect from such hard driven animals?."
"On the basis of the production of commodities, where the means of production are the property of private persons, and where the artisan therefore either produces commodities, isolated from and independent of others, or sells his labour power as a commodity, because he lacks the means for independent industry, co operation on a large scale can realise itself only in the increase of individual capitals, only in proportion as the means of social production and the means of subsistence are transformed into the private property of capitalists."
"of yarn, or the price of one pound is eighteenpence."
"Like real 'khvostists,' they frequently live in the distant past, in the period of the beginning of the movement."
"The Relieving Officer of the Chapel en le Frith Union reported to the Registar General as follows:"
"The time necessary for their sale is superadded to that necessary for their production."
"Further details are to be found in."
"The whole of the labour in the yarn is past labour; and it is a matter of no importance that the operations necessary for the production of its constituent elements were carried on at times which, referred to the present, are more remote than the final operation of spinning."
"If oxen, steam, or water, be used for driving it, only a few boys and girls as feeders are required."
"The social means of production remain the private property of a few."
"Now, we saw, when we were considering the process of creating value, that, if a use value be effectively consumed in the production of a new use value, the quantity of labour expended in the production of the consumed article, forms a portion of the quantity of labour necessary to produce the new use value; this portion is therefore labour transferred from the means of production to the new product."
"On the importance of sunlight for the maintenance and growth of the body, a physician writes: Light also acts upon the tissues of the body directly in hardening them and supporting their elasticity."
", that tactics are 'a process of growth of Party tasks, which grow with the Party.'"
"Sheep Pigs Total Total Decrease"
"They are no longer capital."
"The Act of certainly prohibited the employment after.m."
"Differences of age and sex have no longer any distinctive social validity for the working class."
"Hence, a definite portion of each year's product belongs to thedomain of production."
": is that the way he has been putting the question of the state in controversy with the anarchists?"
"So also, when based on these methods, do the cheapening of commodities and capitalist exploitation in general."
"On the other hand, to the same extent as the system of credit is extended, so is the function of money as a means of payment."
"Whilst in our example two pieces of a commodity, after subtraction of the value of the means of production consumed in them, are worth."
"Our machine is always stopped for dinner."
"The age long agrarian incrustation of 'nations without a history' is blasted away, and they are drawn into the capitalist whirlpool."
"Lord Howard of Welden, English Plenipotentiary at Brussels, reports to the Foreign Office"
"labour embodied in the form of machinery of course did not directly force into life a single man, but it made it possible for a smaller number of labourers, with the addition of relatively less living labour, not only to consume the wool productively, and put into it new value, but to preserve in the form of yarn, andc."
"Price is the money name of the labour realised in a commodity."
"are established by a social process that goes on behind the backs of the producers, and, consequently, appear to be fixed by custom."
"The advance of industry, whose involuntary promoter is the bourgeoisie, replaces the isolation of the labourers, due to competition, by their revolutionary combination, due to association."
"That such a question should furnish the material of serious controversy, shows plainly how capitalist production acts on the brain functions of capitalists and their retainers."
"the whole proceeds of his labor to the worker' Marx makes a sober estimate of exactly how socialist society will have to manage its affairs."
"Natural selection' of full publicity, the principle of election and general control provide the guarantee that, in the last analysis, every political worker will be 'in his proper place,' will do the work for which he is best fitted by his strength and abilities, will feel the effects of his mistakes on himself, and prove before all the world his ability to recognize mistakes and to avoid them."
"the greater the order and regularity of every work, the same must needs be done in less time, the labour must be less.'"
"The bodily form of the linen is now the form assumed in common by the values of all commodities; it therefore becomes directly exchangeable with all and every of them."
"I return to this in the nd volume, as well as to the Blue books that have appeared since on the position of the English land labourers."
"He makes what regulations he pleases; he alters and makes additions to his code at pleasure; and if he insert the veriest nonsense, the courts say to the workman: Since you have entered into this contract voluntarily, you must now carry it out."
"In the sphere of agriculture, modern industry has a more revolutionary effect than elsewhere, for this reason, that it annihilates the peasant, that bulwark of the old society, and replaces him by the wage labourer."
"Fifteen girls in stoves."
"All the usual arguments against the shortening of the working day, assume that it takes place under the conditions we have here supposed to exist; but in reality the very contrary is the case: a change in the productiveness and intensity of labour either precedes, or immediately follows, a shortening of the working day. .)"
"The money owner buys everything necessary for this purpose, such as raw material, in the market, and pays for it at its full value."
"The inspectors, when the Bill of was in preparation, did not fail to represent the disgraceful state of the places called schools, certificates from which they were obliged to admit as a compliance with the laws, but they were successful only in obtaining thus much, that since the passing of the Act of the figures in the school certificate must be filled up in the handwriting of the schoolmaster, who must also sign his Christian and surname in full."
"Thus spinning by machinery made weaving by machinery a necessity, and both together made the mechanical and chemical revolution that took place in bleaching, printing, and dyeing, imperative."
"That which comes directly face to face with the possessor of money on the market, is in fact not labour, but the labourer."
"It places under protection a new category of workers, viz., the women over."
"But meanwhile the fiasco of the Chartist party whose leaders were imprisoned, and whose organisation was dismembered, had shaken the confidence of the English working class in its own strength."
"That co operation which is based on division of labour, assumes its typical form in manufacture, and is the prevalent characteristic form of the capitalist process of production throughout the manufacturing period properly so called."
"Greater outlay of capital per acre, and, as a consequence, more rapid concentration of farms, were essential conditions of the new method."
"Its second change of place always expresses the second metamorphosis of the commodity, its re conversion from money."
"We shall quote the whole passage from which they are taken. '"
"percentage of bad ones may be a little more."
"The whole mechanism discloses a systematic division of labour; but a division like that in manufactures is impossible, since the smith and the carpenter, andc."
"This same Scotch sycophant and fine talker, Macaulay, says: We hear to day only of retrogression and see only progress."
"In the treatises, therefore, of economists of the stamp of MacCulloch, Ure, Senior, and tutti quanti, we may read upon one page, that the labourer owes a debt of gratitude to capital for developing his productiveness, because the necessary labour time is thereby shortened, and on the next page, that he must prove his gratitude by working in future for hours instead of."
"Indeed, picture to yourselves the people who are immersed ninety nine percent in 'the economic struggle against the employers and the government.'"
"With the development of class antagonisms between capital and labor."
"The minimum of the sum of value that the individual possessor of money or commodities must command, in order to metamorphose himself into a capitalist, changes with the different stages of development of capitalist production, and is at given stages different in different spheres of production, according to their special and technical conditions."
"the more so since it must obviously be a rather lengthy process."
"Third, the demoralised and ragged, and those unable to work, chiefly people who succumb to their incapacity for adaptation, due to the division of labour; people who have passed the normal age of the labourer; the victims of industry, whose number increases with the increase of dangerous machinery, of mines, chemical works, andc., the mutilated, the sickly, the widows, andc."
"Whatever difference in skill there may be between the labour of a spinner and that of a jeweller, the portion of his labour by which the jeweller merely replaces the value of his own labour power, does not in any way differ in quality from the additional portion by which he creates surplus value."
"But it is clear that according to the length of the working day, that is, according to the amount of actual labour daily supplied, the same daily or weekly wage may represent very different prices of labour,.e., very different sums of money for the same quantity of labour."
"On the other hand: Cotton spinning and weaving:."
"That Rabocheye Dyelo did none of these things is a well known fact, and further on we shall deal with this well known fact from various aspects."
"The second term of its first metamorphosis, the money form, then becomes the first term of its final metamorphosis, its re conversion into the Bible."
"If we keep labour alone in view, we may designate the separation of social production into its main divisions or"
"Withdrawn from circulation, they become petrified into a hoard, and though they remained in that state till doomsday, not a single farthing would accrue to them."
"This increment or excess over the original value I call surplus value."
"Let the value of the means of production used up in each article be sixpence."
"So far as it is a value in use, there is nothing mysterious about it, whether we consider it from the point of view that by its properties it is capable of satisfying human wants, or from the point that those properties are the product of human labour."
"Let the Government put upon the virgin soil an artificial price, independent of the law of supply and demand, a price that compels the immigrant to work a long time for wages before he can earn enough money to buy land, and turn himself into an independent peasant."
"By converting part of his capital into labour power, the capitalist augments the value of his entire capital."
"We must arrange that he be maintained by the Party, that he may in due time go underground, that he change the place of his activity, otherwise he will not enlarge his experience, he will not widen his outlook, and will not be able to stay in the fight against the gendarmes for at least a few years."
"Next: Chapter Seven:"
"This applies not only to the press, but to every function of the movement, even to demonstrations."
"And in the pamphlet mentioned in the preceding footnote, after the polemics against reducing the political struggle to a conspiracy, a description is given (as a Social Democratic ideal) of an organization so strong as to be able to 'resort to rebellion' and to 'every other form of attack,' in order to 'deliver a smashing blow against absolutism.'"
"a political character are merely two different forms of evading the most pressing duty that now rests upon Russian revolutionaries, namely, to organize all sided political agitation."
"According to him, Urquhart himself is one of the chief agents in the ruin of Turkey, where he had made Free trade propaganda in the English interest."
"By the side of independent producers who carry on their handicrafts and agriculture in the traditional old fashioned way, there stands the usurer or the merchant, with his usurer's capital or merchant's capital, feeding on them like a parasite."
"This maximum limit is conditioned by two things."
"We must translate the quotations from the German originals, as the Russian translations, although very numerous, are for the most part either incomplete or very unsatisfactory."
"In order to increase the attractions of these holes for the labourers, the pieces of land belonging thereto from time immemorial, are systematically confiscated."
"The inhabitants do not go beyond the same or the next parish, parting their two room tenements into single rooms, and crowding even those."
"The individual difference in the wages of different labourers who do the same kind of work."
"According to the economists themselves, it is neither the actual extent of social wealth, nor the magnitude of the capital already functioning, that lead to a rise of wages, but only the constant growth of accumulation and the degree of rapidity of that growth."
"The villages are the property of Mr. Bankes and of the Earl of Shaftesbury."
"On the other hand, any general expression of value common to all is directly excluded; for, in the equation of value of each commodity, all other commodities now appear only under the form of equivalents."
"One person there does the work formerly divided between two."
"Coins of the same denomination become different in value, because they are different in weight."
"The struggle of world imperialism is becoming aggravated."
"In Homer, for instance, the value of an article is expressed in a series of different things Vll."
"The reasoning is quite worthy of the man who first declared the relations of capitalist production to be eternal laws of nature and reason, whose free, harmonious working is only disturbed by the intervention of the State, in order afterwards to discover that the diabolical influence of England on the world market (an influence which, it appears, does not spring from the natural laws of capitalist production) necessitates State intervention,.e.,"
"It is self evident, that, amid the ebbings and flowings of the markets and the alternate expansions and contractions of demand, occasions will constantly recur, in which the manufacturer may employ additional floating capital without employing additional fixed capital."
"On modern power looms a weaver now makes in a week of hours pieces of certain quality, length, and breadth; while on the old power looms he could make no more than such pieces."
"In a physical respect."
"Since the value of the means of production is twelve shillings, of these articles merely replace the constant capital advanced."
"The condition of the adult male operatives, even during the years of prosperity, may be judged from the note subjoined."
"The 'holding system,' with which we are already familiar, leads to the same result."
"When we throw both into the scales, we see in reality, that as weight they are both the same, and that, therefore, when taken in proper proportions, they have the same weight."
"The German oil magnates saw visions of wonderful profits, which would not be less than those of the great Russian sugar refiners."
"In pointing out that their mode of exploitation was different to that of the bourgeoisie, the feudalists forget that they exploited under circumstances and conditions that were quite different, and that are now antiquated."
"If the bushel of wheat should cost but four shillings, he would be obliged to work but four days; but as wages in this kingdom are much higher in proportion to the price of necessaries."
"There we were chiefly concerned with the social functioning of the labourer."
"With the carpets in the form of money, they bought means of subsistence to the value of."
"Take the type of Social Democratic circle that has been most widespread during the past few years, and examine its work."
"Similarly, in Russia, the theoretical doctrine of Social Democracy arose quite independently of the spontaneous growth of the labor movement; it arose as a natural and inevitable outcome of the development of ideas among the revolutionary socialist intelligentsia."
"Savages and half civilised races use the tongue differently."
"The loans enable the government to meet extraordinary expenses, without the tax payers feeling it immediately, but they necessitate, as."
"Reports of the Inspector of Factories for the half year."
"Further on we will show the dimensions and significance of the so called migratory non agricultural trades."
"But in this latter case, the value of each single product falls, for it costs less labour than before; in the former case, that value remains unchanged, for each article costs the same labour as before."
"That a capitalist should command on the field of production, is now as indispensable as that a general should command on the field of battle."
"Custodi, Parte Moderna,."
"Mangoldwurzel Cabbages Flax Hay tons, tons, tons, st. lb.) tons,."
"This phenomenal form, which makes the actual relation invisible, and, indeed, shows the direct opposite of that relation, forms the basis of all the juridical notions of both labourer and capitalist, of all the mystifications of the capitalistic mode of production, of all its illusions as to liberty, of all the apologetic shifts of the vulgar economists."
"At their birth the great banks, decorated with national titles, were only associations of private speculators, who placed themselves by the side of governments, and, thanks to the privileges they received, were in a position to advance money to the State."
"A gulf separates Marx and Kautsky in their respective attitudes towards the task of the proletarian party in preparing the working class for revolution."
"The movement made enormous strides."
"The capital is made up of two components, one, the sum of money laid out upon the means of production, and the other, the sum of money expended upon the labour power; represents the portion that has become constant capital, and the portion that has become variable capital."
"Nay more, in this work of changing the form he is constantly helped by natural forces."
"The use value of labour power, or in other words, labour, belongs just as little to its seller, as the use value of oil after it has been sold belongs to the dealer who has sold it."
"The production of relative surplus population has more than kept pace with the absolute depopulation."
"The male and female servants living with the farmers themselves are sufficiently nourished."
"Since the demand for labour is determined not by the amount of capital as a whole, but by its variable constituent alone, that demand falls progressively with the increase of the total capital, instead of, as previously assumed, rising in proportion to it."
"At the head is the gang master, always an ordinary agricultural labourer"
"With the general revival of the labor movement, with the general development of the working masses, with the growing frequency of strikes, and with the mass labor struggle becoming more and more open, which intensifies government persecution, arrests, deportation and exile, this lack of highly skilled revolutionary forces is becoming more and more marked and, without a doubt, must affect the depth and the general character of the movement."
"So that every art, trade, or engine, doing work with labour of fewer hands, and consequently cheaper, begets in others a kind of necessity and emulation, either of using the same art, trade, or engine, or of inventing something like it, that every man may be upon the square, that no man may be able to undersell his neighbour."
"an apprentice is considered as part of the return for the boys' labour, and thus enables the man to get it at a cheaper rate."
"The phrases employed by the authors of the 'economic' letter in Iskra, No. about the efforts of the most inspired ideologists not being able to divert the labor movement from the path that is determined by the interaction of the material elements and the material environment, are tantamount to the abandonment of socialism, and if only the authors of this letter fearlessly thought out what they say to its logical conclusion, as everyone who enters the arena of literary and public activity should do, they would have nothing to do but 'fold their useless arms over their empty breasts' and."
"And it is clear as noon day, that machines and systems of machinery, the characteristic instruments of labour of Modern Industry,"
"'We know,' wrote Die Bank, 'that this plan has been contemplated since it became known that the majority of the shares in the bus company has been acquired by the other two traffic companies."
"This statement proved to be such an excellent weapon against Economism that, had there been no Credo, it would have been worth inventing."
"On one occasion, on visiting a place called a school, from which certificates of school attendance, had issued, I was so struck with the ignorance of the master, that I said to him: 'Pray, sir, can you read?'"
"percent., and of the total number of persons employed percent."
"It must be acknowledged that our labourer comes out of the process of production other than he entered."
"Let us examine both sides of this antagonism."
", they never discovered that the course of the analysis had led not only from the market prices of labour to its presumed value, but had led to the resolution of this value of labour itself into the value of labour power."
", then his analysis was superfluous."
"Therefore, if no more than I lb."
"He wrote: 'Up to now the difference between the Social Democrats and the anarchists has been that the former wished to conquer state power while the latter wished to destroy it."
"It is evident that the whole gist of this argument lies in the words and so on, which send us from pillar to post."
"And as in material, so also in intellectual production."
"The growth of internal exchange, and particularly of international exchange, is a special feature of capitalism."
"The two things must therefore be equal to a third, which in itself is neither the one nor the other."
"Six adults, living with children in one sleeping apartment, pay."
"The answer given in The Communist Manifesto was that 'the proletariat organized as the ruling class' 'to win the battle of democracy' was to be the substitute for this machine."
"The whole working day then amounts to hours and is embodied in a value of shillings."
"Hardly anyone will doubt the necessity for every Social Democratic newspaper having a special section devoted to the trade union (economic) struggle."
"percent of the total coal output of the area."
"the remaining half hours,.e., the last hour, yield or the net profit."
"Smith recommends education of the people by the State, but prudently, and in homeopathic doses."
"The masons, in their collective working day of hours, make much more progress with the building than one mason could make working for days, or hours."
"The upper stratum furnishes the main body of co operators, of trade unionists, of members of sporting clubs and of numerous religious sects."
"Everywhere Social Democracy is found to be ahead of all others, rousing political discontent among all classes, rousing the sluggards, pushing on the laggards and providing a wealth of material for the development of the political consciousness and political activity of the proletariat."
"Their owner must, therefore, lend them his tongue, or hang a ticket on them, before their prices can be communicated to the outside world."
"The value originally advanced, therefore, not only remains intact while in circulation, but adds to itself a surplus value or expands itself."
"This table shows that the export of capital reached formidable dimensions only in the beginning of the twentieth century."
"As Thornton rightly has it, the English working class was precipitated without any transition from its golden into its iron age."
"Being poles they are as necessarily opposite as they are connected."
"Do you think that the juries would be impartial if they were composed to a considerable extent of workmen?"
"Chamberlain, Mayor of the town, now President of the Board of Trade."
"We shall now proceed to discuss this, undoubtedly the most important part of their doctrine."
"(House of Lords' Committee, .)"
"les ouvriers sont occupes"
"The second form, distinguishes, in a more adequate manner than the first, the value of a commodity from its use value, for the value of the coat is there placed in contrast under all possible shapes with the bodily form of the coat; it is equated to linen, to iron, to tea, in short, to everything else, only not to itself, the coat."
"Working day of hours Value created of sh."
"But that is not all."
"Economic' concessions (or pseudo concessions) are, of course, the cheapest and most advantageous concessions to make from the government's point of view, because by these means it hopes to win the confidence of the masses of the workers."
"Despite the fanatical opposition of the army of perjured Free traders, with Bright and Cobden at their head, the Ten Hours' Bill, struggled for so long, went through Parliament."
"he may be regarded as lending the difference (?)"
"His unfortunate situation will fully appear, by taking a comparative view of it, only forty years ago, and at present."
"Si le manouvrier libre prend un instant de repos, I' conomie sordide qui le suit des yeux avec inqui tude, pr tend qu'il la vole."
"A single person cannot carve a working day of more than, say hours, out of the natural day, but men co operating extend the working day to hours."
"Their real change of value would appear from the diminished or increased quantity of commodities produced in a given time."
"and we were very soon agreed that the principal defect in that brochure was that it ignored the question of organization."
"Daily Telegraph, th January,."
"Engels returned to the same subject repeatedly and explained Marx's analysis and conclusions, sometimes illuminating other sides of the question with such strength and vividness that it is necessary to deal with his explanations separately."
"But we do not think that any line could be drawn over the age of at which boys could be dispensed with for night work."
"of tea yards of linen, etc."
"This intensification of contradictions constitutes the most powerful driving force of the transitional period of history, which began at the time of the definite victory of world finance capital."
"Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase (Acres)"
"The process, therefore, that clears the way for the capitalist system, can be none other than the process which takes away from the laborer the possession of his means of production; a process that transforms, on the one hand, the social means of subsistence and of production into capital, on the other, the immediate producers into wage laborers."
"There is no trace of utopianism in Marx, in the sense that he invented or imagined a 'new society.'"
"The same elements of capital which, from the point of view of the labour process, present themselves respectively as the objective and subjective factors, as means of production and labour power, present themselves, from the point of view of the process of creating surplus value, as constant and variable capital."
"I say ultimately, because average prices do not directly coincide with the values of commodities, as Adam Smith, Ricardo, and others believe."
"But every class struggle is a political struggle."
"In corals, each individual is, in fact, the stomach of the whole group; but it supplies the group with nourishment, instead of, like the Roman patrician, withdrawing it."
"The fact is so astonishing as to he almost incredible."
"n+ O; of the normal fatty acids: and many others."
"The definition of constant capital given above by no means excludes the possibility of a change of value in its elements."
"The time just before the repeal of the Corn Laws threw new light on the condition of the agricultural labourers."
"The relative magnitude of the element of price, which represents the value of the means of production only, or the constant part of capital consumed, is in direct, the relative magnitude of the other element of price that pays labour (the variable part of capital) is in inverse proportion to the advance of accumulation."
"one foot in one minute, and reckons the cost of one horse power from a steam engine to be, and from a horse to be."
"has coincided with that spirit of bold adventure which has characterised the trade of Liverpool and rapidly carried it to its present state of prosperity; has occasioned vast employment for shipping and sailors, and greatly augmented the demand for the manufactures of the country (p. Liverpool employed in the slave trade, in ships; in in in and in."
"whose miserable condition exceeds almost anything he has seen elsewhere in England, and is almost entirely the result of their bad house accommodation; and second, that the crowded and dilapidated condition of the houses of these colonies is much worse than was the case years ago."
"as trade requires, Petty replies in his usual masterly manner, I answer yes: for the expense being millions, if the revolutions were in such short circles, viz., weekly, as happens among poor artisans and labourers, who receive and pay every Saturday, then parts of million of money would answer these ends, but if the circles be quarterly, according to our custom of paying rent, and gathering taxes, then millions were requisite."
"de propiont rassembl dans une seule classe de la soci."
"Thus the Commune appears to have substituted 'only' fuller democracy for the smashed state machine: abolition of the standing army; all officials to be elected and subject to recall."
"The introduction of power looms into England probably reduced by one half the labour required to weave a given quantity of yarn into cloth."
"Even Adam Smith and Ricardo, the best representatives of the school, treat the form of value as a thing of no importance, as having no connexion with the inherent nature of commodities."
"But Ireland is at present only an agricultural district of England, marked off by a wide channel from the country to which it yields corn, wool, cattle, industrial and military recruits."
"The peasants themselves very aptly and strikingly characterize this process by the term 'unpeasantize.'"
"Ne sutor ultra crepidam this nec plus ultra of handicraft wisdom became sheer nonsense, from the moment the watchmaker Watt invented the steam engine, the barber Arkwright, the throstle, and the working jeweller, Fulton, the steamship."
"That this credit is no mere fiction, is shown not only by the occasional loss of wages on the bankruptcy of the capitalist, but also by a series of more enduring consequences."
"The great production of surplus value in these branches of labour, and the progressive cheapening of their articles, were and are chiefly due to the minimum wages paid, no more than requisite for a miserable vegetation, and to the extension of working time up to the maximum endurable by the human organism."
", in Dritter Brief an Kirchmann von Rodbertus."
"Nevertheless, the laws for keeping them down remained in force, together with the ear clipping and branding of those whom no one was willing to take into service."
"Very different combinations are clearly possible, according as one of the three factors is constant and two variable, or two constant and one variable, or lastly, all three simultaneously variable."
"Hence its name greek: tokos interest and offspring)."
"By the destruction of petty anddomestic industries it destroys the last resort of the redundant population, and with it the sole remaining safety valve of the whole social mechanism."
"It is true that there is this loss from machinery"
"Capital, viz., accumulated wealth employed with a view to profit."
"Rabocheye Dyelo, Nos.)"
"It already has its factory genealogy and a not inconsiderable section has its third generation.'"
"But just as, upon every such transmutation of a commodity, its two forms, commodity form and money form, exist simultaneously but at opposite poles, so every seller has a buyer opposed to him, and every buyer a seller."
"The 'ex Marxists' who took up the flag of 'criticism,' and who obtained almost a monopoly of the 'criticism' of Marxism, entrenched themselves in this literature."
"Speaking of an invention for dressing warps: Then the combined malcontents, who fancied themselves impregnably entrenched behind the old lines of division of labour, found their flanks turned and their defences rendered useless by the new mechanical tactics, and were obliged to surrender at discretion."
"This, however, can make no difference with regard to the quantitative relation of surplus labour to necessary labour."
"(Census of England and Wales for."
"The judicial functionaries were to be divested of their sham independence."
"As a periodic increment of the capital advanced, or periodic fruit of capital in process, surplus value acquires the form of a revenue flowing out of capital."
"The 'proximity' of such capitalism to socialism should serve the genuine representatives of the proletariat as proof of the proximity, ease, feasibility and urgency of the socialist revolution, and not as an argument in favor of tolerating the repudiation of such a revolution or in favor of making capitalism look more attractive, an occupation in which all the reformists are engaged."
"per diem; while the wages of the weavers on the average of a year, never exceeded."
"How a social revolution would solve this question depends not only on the circumstances which would exist in each case, but is also connected with much more far reaching questions, among which one of the most fundamental is the abolition of the antithesis between town and country."
"Most of the accidents from them happen to little children, from their creeping under the mules to sweep the floor whilst the mules are in motion."
"The price of the labour power is fixed by the contract, although it is not realised till later, like the rent of a house."
"This repeated change of place of the same pieces of money corresponds to the double change in form of the commodities, to their motion in opposite directions through two stages of circulation."
"And the ideal this time fades before the reality."
"But people are not alike: one is strong, another is weak; one is married, another is not; one has more children, another has less, and so on."
"The robe of speculative cobwebs, embroidered with flowers of rhetoric, steeped in the dew of sickly sentiment, this transcendental robe in which the German Socialists wrapped their sorry eternal truths, all skin and bone, served to wonderfully increase the sale of their goods amongst such a public."
"although we believe we are under the mark in stating that six millions of persons have left these shores during the last years, yet, from the natural increase of population, and the displacement of labour to cheapen production, a large percentage of the male adults in the most prosperous times find it impossible to obtain work in factories on any conditions whatever."
"In every country, certain days of the year become by habit recognised settling days for various large and recurrent payments."
"After this begins over time which is paid a little better."
"The Deutsche Bank, which, together with its affiliated banks, controls nearly marks, represents, parallel with the Prussian State Railway Administration, the biggest and also the most decentralized accumulation of capital in the old world.'"
"Do you not think that the mine owner also suffers loss from an explosion?"
"some of them have been out of work for weeks just in consequence of the bad state of the ventilation where there is not explosive gas."
"Although, therefore, it is clear at the first glance that, by incorporating both stupendous physical forces, and the natural sciences, with the process of production, Modern Industry raises the productiveness of labour to an extraordinary degree, it is by no means equally clear, that this increased productive force is not, on the other hand, purchased by an increased expenditure of labour."
"In the former case, we had the expropriation of the mass of the people by a few usurpers; in the latter, we have the expropriation of a few usurpers by the mass of the people."
"Before the exchange we had worth of wine in the hands of, and worth of corn in those of, a total value of."
"But first let us examine a very typical argument advanced by the terrorist, who (sad fate!)"
"Mr. Simpson (paper box and bagmaker, London) states before the commissioners of the Ch."
"The workhouses are already over crowded."
"The capitalist knows that all commodities, however scurvy they may look, or however badly they may smell, are in faith and in truth money, inwardly circumcised Jews, and what is more, a wonderful means whereby out of money to make more money."
"Hence the diminution in incomes between and in Table."
"The private property of the laborer in his means of production is the foundation of petty industry, whether agricultural, manufacturing, or both; petty industry, again, is an essential condition for the development of social production and of the free individuality of the laborer himself."
"Tithes, Rates, Seed. ."
"Its value, like that of all other commodities, is determined by the working time necessary to its production."
"The different quantities of commodities of the same kind, produced in different countries in the same working time, have, therefore, unequal international values, which are expressed in different prices,.e., in sums of money varying according to international values."
", and the child might not appear at school again for several days, when it would attend from.m."
"The Governor General reported The misery hardly finds a parallel in the history of commerce."
"as the conversation proceeded, it became clear that we were talking of different things."
"In some branches of industry, the girls and women work through the night together with the males."
"This splitting up of the total social capital into many individual capitals or the repulsion of its fractions one from another, is counteracted by their attraction."
"Therefore, with diminishing productiveness of labour and a simultaneous lengthening of the working day, the absolute magnitude of surplus value may continue unaltered, at the same time that its relative magnitude diminishes; its relative magnitude may continue unchanged, at the same time that its absolute magnitude increases; and, provided the lengthening of the day be sufficient, both may increase."
"An extraneous element weighs the balance heavily against him."
"We also know that in no, other system of production is improvement so continuous, and the composition of the capital employed so constantly changing as in the factory system."
"Even as late as the small cloth makers of Leeds sent a deputation to Parliament, with a petition for a law to forbid any merchant from becoming a manufacturer."
"it is stated, that Descartes' method had begun to free Political Economy from the old fables and superstitious notions of gold, trade, andc."
"When this term is once reached, only a very small number continue to find employment in the same branches of industry, whilst the majority are regularly discharged."
"The modern labourer, on the contrary, instead of rising with the progress of industry, sinks deeper and deeper below the conditions of existence of his own class."
"Further particulars will be given in Book"
"Did they wait until, in consequence of this brilliant remuneration, the agricultural labourers had so increased and multiplied that their wages must fall again, as prescribed by the dogmatic economic brain?"
"In requiring the proletariat to carry out such a system, and thereby to march straightway into the social New Jerusalem, it but requires in reality, that the proletariat should remain The revolutionary storm of swept away this whole shabby tendency and cured its protagonists of the desire to dabble further in Socialism."
"(Resolution passed by the Congress of the League and 'amendments' thereto, Two Congresses.)"
"et ainsi nous rendre comme ma tres et possesseurs de la nature and thus contrubuer au perfectionnement de la vie humaine."
"If the time socially necessary for the production of any commodity alters and a given weight of cotton represents, after a bad harvest, more labour than after a good one all previously existing commodities of the same class are affected, because they are, as it were, only individuals of the species, and their value at any given time is measured by the labour socially necessary,.e., by the labour necessary for their production under the then existing social conditions."
"They hold fast by the original views of their masters, in opposition to the progressive historical development of the proletariat."
"But the dictatorship of the proletariat,.e."
"If both be given, we have only to perform the concluding operation, viz., to calculate s/v, the ratio of the surplus value to the variable capital."
"About a year ago, Mr. Jay promised to appropriate a hut, to which persons in his employ, who were suffering from contagious diseases, might at once be removed."
"The Act of certainly robbed them of the liberty of employing children under longer than hours a day."
"Products are appropriated before they are converted into capital; this conversion does not secure them from such appropriation."
"is under present circumstances of great advantage to the family, since it adds that amount of income"
"In keeping with the plan of the present work, we shall examine the exact economic data on this question."
"The peculiar circumstance, that while the ounce of gold serves in England as the unit of the standard of money, the pound sterling does not form an aliquot part of it, has been explained as follows:"
"up to o'clock the next morning."
"Children's Employment Comm."
"There may be,.g., originally percent."
"These are questions of fact, questions which must be answered in regard to all aspects of the national economy of Russia."
"The attendance at school must be between a.m. and.m."
"Gentlemen of the jury, no doubt the throat of this commercial traveller has been cut."
"Since the expression of the value of commodities in gold is a merely ideal act, we may use for this purpose imaginary or ideal money."
"The Socialistic bourgeois want all the advantages of modern social conditions without the struggles and dangers necessarily resulting therefrom."
"Engels, in Lage, andc., points out the miserable condition of a large number of those who work on these very articles of luxury."
"For since, in this mode of production, the workman finds the instruments of labour existing independently of him as another man's property, economy in their use appears, with regard to him, to be a distinct operation, one that does not concern him, and which, therefore, has no connexion with the methods by which his own personal productiveness is increased."
"Footnotes In Italy, where capitalistic production developed earliest, the dissolution of serfdom also took place earlier than elsewhere."
"La concentration des instruments"
"Surplus value arises from variable capital alone, and we saw that the amount of surplus value depends on two factors, viz., the rate of surplus value and the number of the workmen simultaneously employed."
"The question as to whether it is easier to catch 'a dozen wise men' or 'a hundred fools' reduces itself to the question we have considered above, namely, whether it is possible to have a mass organization when the maintenance of strict secrecy is essential."
"Strike for months, and great misery at Preston; prosperity, glutted markets"
"We see, then, all that our analysis of the value of commodities has already told us, is told us by the linen itself, so soon as it comes into communication with another commodity, the coat."
"a fortnight at the very lowest.'"
"Newcastle on Tyne, as the centre of a coal and iron district of growing productiveness, takes the next place after London in the housing inferno."
"The revolution called forth by modern industry in agriculture, and in the social relations of agricultural producers, will be investigated later on."
"Engels, in addition to many other interesting incidental remarks on questions connected with the attitude to be taken towards the state, gives a remarkably striking resume of the lessons of the Commune."
"Econ., particularly relating to value and to demand and supply Lond.,. ."
", either before a.m. sic.!"
"It is one of the Narodnik prejudices which no one has taken the trouble to prove by an exact analysis of precise economic data."
"Now that it has attained this, it perfects the executive power, reduces it to its purest expression, isolates it, sets it up against itself as the sole target, in order to concentrate all its forces of destruction against it"
"These people are so exhausted after the day's hard work, that neither the rules of health, of cleanliness, nor of decency are in the least observed."
"Their earnings accordingly rose."
"In formulating this law, Ricardo overlooked one circumstance; although a change in the magnitude of the surplus value or surplus labour causes a change in the opposite direction in the magnitude of the value of labour power, or in the quantity of necessary labour, it by no means follows that they vary in the same proportion."
"(capitalism has reached the stage of organized control of individual enterprises). '"
"A lamentation on this score was heard in England during the whole of the fifteenth, and the first half of the eighteenth centuries."
"Free Americans, who cultivate the soil, follow many other occupations."
"Turn and twist then as we may, the fact remains unaltered."
"In our former assumption, according to which workinghours are daily necessary in order to reproduce the labour power itself or to replace the value of the capital advanced in its purchase, a variable capital of., that employs labourers at a rate of surplusvalue of with a hours' workingday, produces daily a surplusvalue of."
"One of the clauses of this petition is as follows:"
"(Landownership and Agriculture, first edition, Vol."
"In order that the surplus labor may absorb the whole day (i.e., an average dy of any week or year), the necessary labor must sink to zero."
"Rabocheye Dyelo imagines that bourgeois democracy in Russia is merely a 'phantom.'"
"It reveals the observer as one overwhelmed by the mass of raw material and utterly incapable of appreciating its meaning and importance."
"Children of too tender an age are sent adrift."
"It is true these regulations contained in the statute mentioned by Petty, apply also to apprentices."
"Salt Pie Street (bottom)."
"The seller therefore pockets a surplus value of."
"The official statistics for the year show, as compared with a decrease in area under cultivation of acres."
"Locke asserts point blank the connexion between the absence of value in gold and silver, and the determination of their values by quantity alone."
"The total product of our community is a social product."
"The continual oscillations in prices, their rising and falling, compensate each other, and reduce themselves to an average price, which is their hidden regulator."
"extended these regulations of labour also to weavers, spinners, and all possible categories of workers."
"Gold and silver coin, on the other hand, are mostly relegated to the sphere of retail trade."
"Of course the ratio of surplus value not only to that portion of the capital from which it immediately springs, and whose change of value it represents, but also to the sum total of the capital advanced is economically of very great importance."
"If the quantity of unpaid labour supplied by the working class, and accumulated by the capitalist class, increases so rapidly that its conversion into capital requires an extraordinary addition of paid labour, then wages rise, and, all other circumstances remaining equal, the unpaid labour diminishes in proportion."
"; when it is above that sum decrease regularly till it be at, and then his food should be th less."
"The facts that lie at the bottom of this dogma are these: on the one hand, the labourer has no right to interfere in the division of social wealth into means of enjoyment for the non labourer and means of production."
"In the estimation of that paper, my view that each special mode of production and the social relations corresponding to it, in short, that the economic structure of society, is the real basis on which the juridical and political superstructure is raised and to which definite social forms of thought correspond; that the mode of production determines the character of the social, political, and intellectual life generally, all this is very true for our own times, in which material interests preponderate, but not for the middle ages, in which Catholicism, nor for Athens and Rome, where politics, reigned supreme."
"And it is precisely on this most striking point, perhaps the most important as far as the problem of the state is concerned, that the teachings of Marx have been most completely forgotten!"
"George extended the laws against coalitions of labourers to manufacturers."
"An ever increasing number of enterprises in one given industry, or in several different industries, join together in giant combines, backed up and controlled by half a dozen Berlin banks."
"represent the value of the raw material, the."
"because the men could not work in the night sets only; it would ruin their health."
"But assuming that he is acting simply as a motor, that a machine has taken the place of his tool, it is evident that he can be replaced by natural forces."
"If the whole working day were to shrink to the length of this portion, surplus labour would vanish, a consummation utterly impossible under the gime of capital."
"With very few exceptions, the general statement that no means are taken to secure the health of the inhabitants would be true of all of them."
"At a rolling mill where the proper hours were from a.m. to.m."
"Axelrod who literally foretold these results of Social Democratic wavering as far as the end of (Modern Tasks and Modern Tactics), when he outlined his remarkable 'two prospects.'"
"In the introduction to his work, where he ex professo praises division of labour, he indicates only in a cursory manner that it is the source of social inequalities."
"Social Democracy represents the working class, not in relation to a given group of employers, but in its relation to all classes in modern society, to the state as an organized political force."
"If the price of labour should rise so high that, notwithstanding the increase of capital, no more could be employed, I should say that such increase of capital would be still unproductively consumed."
", are always separate and distinct from the product they helped to turn out."
"But let us have done with the bourgeois objections to Communism."
"Tantae molis erat, to establish the eternal laws of Nature of the capitalist mode of production, to complete the process of separation between labourers and conditions of labour, to transform, at one pole, the social means of production and subsistence into capital, at the opposite pole, the mass of the population into wage labourers, into free labouring poor, that artificial product of modern society."
"Every crevice is topped to maintain warmth, and in an atmosphere of diabolic odour, with a mud fioor, with his only clothes drying on his back, he often sups and sleeps with his wife and children."
"would eventually fall whether on landlord, or lessee, or labourer, or public."
"While one particular commodity is going through its two transmutations in succession, from a commodity into money and from money into another commodity, the owner of the commodity changes in succession his part from that of seller to that of buyer."
"How great then is the confusion of ideas exhibited in the following extract!"
"On the other hand, the labour question in some agricultural districts, particularly the arable, is becoming so serious in consequence of emigration, and the facility afforded by railways for getting to large towns that I (the I is the steward of a great lord) think the services of children are most indispensable, (l.,. .)"
"Roscher who seldom loses an occasion of registering, in black and white, ingenious apologetic fancies, records the following specimen: ."
"He cannot take the one without giving the other."
"The point we are discussing is the possible and necessary participation of various social strata in the overthrow of the autocracy; not only are we able, but it is our duty, to guide these 'activities of the various opposition strata' if we desire to be the 'vanguard.'"
"so long as equivalents are exchanged; that, therefore, it can only have its origin in the two fold advantage gained, over both the selling and the buying producers, by the merchant who parasitically shoves himself in between them."
"Transcribed by Alan Thurrott Html Markup by Stephen Baird"
"Mary Anne Walkley had worked without intermission for hours, with other girls, in one room, that only afforded of the cubic feet of air required for them."
"And, since it ceased in the hands of the German to express the struggle of one class with the other, he felt conscious of having overcome French one sidedness and of representing, not true requirements, but the requirements of Truth; not the interests of the proletariat, but the interests of Human Nature, of Man in general, who belongs to no class, has no reality, who exists only in the misty realm of philosophical fantasy."
"The linen, which in his eyes is a mere commodity, a depository of value, he alienates in exchange for gold, which is the linen's value form, and this form he again parts with for another commodity, the Bible, which is destined to enter his house as an object of utility and of edification to its inmates."
"Experience shows that this reduction is constantly being made."
"Aus dem Russischen von Dr. Abel und."
"the fact that theirs is really a low species of skilled labour, and that there is none which is more easily acquired, or of its quality more amply remunerated, or which, by a short training of the least expert, can be more quickly, as well as abundantly, acquired."
"Intensification of Labour Section"
"So far as they are values, the coat and the linen are things of a like substance, objective expressions of essentially identical labour."
"(Malthus' Definitions, andc.)"
"It amounts in the different working days respectively to and percent."
"In Germany, it is illegal to issue shares of less value than one thousand marks, and the magnates of German finance look with an envious eye at England, where it is legal to issue one pound shares."
", that profit is derived from the labour of the capitalist, and interest from his asceticism, in other words, from his abstinence."
"Pillow lace making is chiefly carried on in England in two agricultural districts; one, the Honiton lace district, extending from to miles along the south coast of Devonshire, and including a few places in North Devon; the other comprising a great part of the counties of Buckingham, Bedford, and Northampton, and also the adjoining portions of Oxfordshire and Huntingdonshire."
"The framework of formally recognized free competition remains, but the yoke of a few monopolists on the rest of the population becomes a hundred times heavier, more burdensome and intolerable."
"Such is the purchase and the renting of land; such are the diametrically opposite types of 'trade,' and such is the technical progress of economy."
"No precise statistical data to show whether the disintegration of the peasantry is progressing, and with what rapid ity, are available which could be juxtaposed to the combined tables (sees."
"In the former case, it is a question of How and What, in the latter of How much?"
"The consumption of the labour power, which was also the process of producing commodities, resulted in lbs."
"Like all opportunists, including the present Kautskyists, he utterly fails to understand that, first of all, the transition from capitalism to socialism is impossible without some 'reversion' to 'primitive' democracy (how else can the majority, and even the whole population, proceed to discharge state functions?); and, secondly, he forgets that 'primitive democracy' based on capitalism and capitalist culture is not the same as primitive democracy in prehistoric or pre capitalist times."
"Some of the farmers declare that the cots are a great nuisance here, because they bring the poor."
"Children of might, if they began work at noon, be employed from to hour; from to in the afternoon, hours; from to in the evening, hours; in all, the legal hours."
"Therefore, save, save,.e, reconvert the greatest possible portion of surplus value, or surplus product into capital!"
"Tools of the same kind, such as knives, drills, gimlets."
"Until the 'higher' phase of communism arrives, the Socialists demand the strictest control, by society and by the state, of the amount of labor and the amount of consumption; but this control must start with the expropriation of the capitalists, with the establishment of workers' control over the capitalists, and must be carried out, not by a state of bureaucrats, but by a state of armed workers."
"(The various Statutes were passed between and.)"
"During the other period, the period of surplus labor, the usufruct of the labor power creates a value for the capitalist, that costs him no equivalent."
"Hence the number of accidents which occur on Fridays, and especially on Saturdays, is much larger than on any other day."
"Anyhow the full priced bakers, as was mentioned above, and as their spokesman, Bennett, himself admits, make their men generally begin work at.m."
"We shall see below that the Russian Revolutions of and in different circumstances and under different conditions, continued the work of the Commune and corroborated Marx's brilliant historical analysis."
"Therefore, when we speak of the progress of social accumulation we tacitly include to day the effects of centralisation."
"In the Highlands, says Somers in new forests are springing up like mushrooms."
"The bull like bellow of the landed proprietors at the opening of Parliament, in showed that a man can worship the cow Sabala without being a Hindu, and can change himself into an ox without being a Jupiter."
"It recruits itself constantly from the supernumerary forces of modern industry and agriculture, and specially from those decaying branches of industry where handicraft is yielding to manufacture, manufacture to machinery."
"Do you think that in this country any law that you pass."
"International cartels show to what point capitalist monopolies have developed, and they reveal the object of the struggle between the various capitalist groups."
"At the date of the Child."
"During the th century arose the farms or terriers."
"And there may also be a further gain."
"An Inquiry into the Connexion between the Present Price of Provisions and the Size of Farms."
"This happened since under Charles."
"It is the same in glass works."
"A pearl or a diamond is valuable as a pearl or a diamond."
"But this democracy is always restricted by the narrow framework of capitalist exploitation, and consequently always remains, in reality, a democracy for the minority, only for the possessing classes, only for the rich."
"I borrow my examples chiefly from the Free trade period after that age of paradise, of which the commercial travellers for the great firm of Free trade, blatant as ignorant, tell such fabulous tales."
"The banks,' writes Jeidels, 'in refusing a helping hand to the very companies which need it, bring on, after a frenzied boom, the hopeless failure of the companies which are not permanently closely attached to them.'"
"In the progress of culture all, and perhaps more than all, the capital and labour which once loosely occupied acres, are now concentrated for the more complete tillage of."
"This is his pamphlet, The Social Revolution."
"The more nearly the time approached for the coming into full force of the Factory Act, the fatal year the more wildly raged the mob of manufacturers."
"other privations they are subjected to, has made this class particularly susceptible to low fever and pulmonary consumption."
