"x"
"may lead to a sexualization of their social instincts and so undo the work of sublimation which they had achieved in the course of their development."
"In a sense, murder is always directed against the face, but thereby always misses it."
"A violence without purpose, a joy, a pure joy in feeling oneself a wheel in the machine, traversed by flows, broken by schizzes."
"this man writes and the writer is no one."
"This is why, whenever the dialectic 'forgets' its intimate relation with Ideas in the form of problems, whenever it is content to trace problems from propositions, it loses its true power and falls under the sway of the power of the negative, necessarily substituting for the ideal objecticity of the problematic a simple confrontation between opposing, contrary or contradictory, propositions."
"I rnachinic element of desire, the desiring machines."
"It was in this spirit that the Societe d'Emulation, which grouped together the younger generation and faithfully represented the new school, asked at the concours of the famous question: 'What diseases may be specially regarded as organic?'"
"And this is the fundamental point:"
"Where have these movements been better described than in The Phenomenology of the Mind?"
": februare is to expel ritually from a house the shades of the dead."
"Just as the genealogical tree, at a lower level than the comparison that it involves and all its imaginary themes, presupposes a space in which kinship is formalizable, the nosological picture involves a figure of the diseases that is neither the chain of causes and effects nor the chronological series of events nor its visible trajectory in the human body."
"The asylum of the positivist age, which Pinel is credited with having founded, is not a freedomain of observation, diagnosis and therapeutics: it is a judicial space where people are accused, judged, and sentenced, from which they can only be freed by a translation of this judicial process into the depths of psychology, ie through repentance."
"The fragment is neither a determined style nor a failure, but the form of that which is written."
"Even neo evolutionism will rediscover these two related aspects of the categories of the Large and the Small, when it distinguishes the large precocious embryological differenciations from the small, tardy, adult, species or intraspecies differenciations."
"But it is our belief that this movement can be described within its own time and place only if one has previously disengaged the extremity of hyperbole, which Foucault seemingly has not done."
"When in the course of our discussion above, we laid down the broad outlines of a parallelism between social production and desiringproduction, in order to show that in both cases there is a strong tendency on the part of the forces of antiproduction to operate retroactively on (se rabattre sur) productive forms and appropriate them, this parallelism was in no way meant as an exhaustive description of the relationship between the two systems of production."
"Once that positivity had been acquired, it was not of the same nature, level or strength for the different forms of madness."
"If the messianic eschatology from which Levinas draws inspiration seeks neither to assimilate itself into what is called a philosophical truism, nor even to complete."
"But the brain does take on the role of a relay that distributes a malady whose origins are visceral, and the womb brings it on just as the other viscera do."
"Representation essentially implies an analogy of being."
"Hence there are three levels of language, all based upon the single being of the written word."
"Which is merely a way to pose the question, How can the revolution be betrayed?"
"To stay alive, to maintain oneself in life, to work, to defer pleasure, to limit the stakes, to have respect for death at the very moment when one looks directly at it such is the servile condition of mastery and of the entire history it makes possible."
"The other concern entirely different from the first, even though in correlation with it was the search for a logic independent of grammars, vocabularies, synthetic forms, and words: a logic that could clarify and utilize the universal implications of thought while protecting them from the singularities of a constituted language in which they might be obscured."
"It is a gaze of the concrete sensibility, a gaze that travels from body to body, and whose trajectory is situated in the space of sensible manifestation."
"The superintendent assured him that he had no desire ever to use the means of coercion that he had at his disposal. '"
"They were afraid of the strange chemistry that simmered inside the walls of the houses of confinement, afraid of the powers that formed there and threatened to spread."
"Our question is not yet that of knowing whether the selective difference is indeed between the true and false claimants, as Plato says it is, but rather of knowing how Plato establishes the difference thanks to the method of division."
"Man was never certain that he was not dreaming, and never sure that he was not mad: 'do we not often feel ourselves to be in contradiction with our own better judgement?'"
"We are not told whether or not this passage of the first Meditation, inter preted by Foucault as a philosophical internment of madness, is destined, able to situate it in its total historical form."
"Even the most repressive and the most deadly forms of social reproduction are produced by desire within the organization that is the consequence of such production under various conditions that we must analyze."
"Wouldn't the real difference be between Oedipus, structural as well as imaginary, and something else that all the Oedipuses crush and repress: desiring production the machines of"
"In the psychology of madness, the old idea of truth as 'the conformity of thoughts to things' is transposed to this metaphor of resonance and vibration, a kind of musical fidelity of the fibre to the sensations that make it vibrate."
"But by the same token, this function makes the philosophical or epistemological requirement of a center appear as mythological, that is to say, as a historical illusion."
"In the second part of the novel, Don Quixote meets characters who have read the first part of his story and recognize him, the real man, as the hero of the book."
"Quite obviously, it would be superficial to seek this unity in some progress made in rationality, or in the discovery of a new cultural theme."
"Objectively, paradox displays the element which cannot be totalised within a common element, along with the difference which cannot be equalised or cancelled at the direction of a good sense."
"The 'quantitative law' was not 'invented' by Locke."
"The form of the hole which mobilizes the discourse of a certain existentialism and a certain psychoanalysis for which poor."
"At least two hands are needed to make the apparatus function, as well as a system of gestures, a coordination of independent initiatives, an organized multiplicity of origins."
"The literary act thus recovers its true power at its source."
"Its sovereign production and repression can be achieved in no other way."
"It was probably a familiar figure already, if one considers the terrors of confinement."
"being with the negative, contradiction is inevitably carried into being; but contradiction is only the appearance or the epiphenomenon, the illusion projected by the problem, the shadow of a question which remains open and of a being which corresponds as such to that question (before it has been given a response)."
"The movement was of a similar order in Bic tre; in there were 'mad, violent or innocent' inmates; in men were found locked up in Saint Prix, the ward reserved for madmen."
"But there was a necessity lying at the heart of their knowledge: they had to find an adjustment between the infinite richness of a resemblance introduced as a third term between signs and their meaning, and the monotony that imposed the same pattern of resemblance upon the sign and what it signified."
"The organic 'cross ruling' that makes it possible to determine fixed but arborescent points does not abolish the density of pathological history to the advantage of the pure anatomical surface; it introduces it into the specified volume of the body, bringing about for the first time in medical thought a coincidence of the morbid time and the mappable course of organic masses."
"By means of the endless play of modifications and repetitions, the hospital clinic makes possible, therefore, the setting aside of the extrinsic."
"The instant in which, together, madness and an œuvre come into being and reach fulfilment is the beginning of the time when the world first finds itself summoned by the œuvre, and is responsible for all that it is in the face of it."
"Bitterness had the harshness of seawater, and purified and corroded."
"The chain of one disease engendering another, and that of the perpetual impoverishment of poverty, is thus broken when one gives up trying to create for the sick a differentiated, distinct space, which results, in an ambiguous but clumsy way, in both the protection and the preservation of disease."
"We call this state of infinitely doubled difference which resonates to infinity disparity."
"They are indeed explanatory schema, but they are also ambiguous themes where the patient's imagination gives form, space, substance and language to his or her own suffering, and where the physician's imagination immediately projects an outline of the interventions necessary for the restoration of health."
"The 'never seen' which characterises an always displaced and disguised object is immersed in the 'already seen' of the pure past in general, from which that object is extracted."
"Looking at his paintings, one understands what it means to scale the wall, and yet to remain behind; to cause flows to pass through, without knowing any longer whether they are carrying us elsewhere or flowing back over us already."
"Erases it while producing it: the medium of the dialogue and misunderstanding between the Husserlian and Heideggerian concepts of Being in the world.)"
"just when you think you have disentangled and separated them, you realize that they are knitting together again in response to the operation of unexpected affinities."
"And this has two consequences."
"Modern thought, then, will contest even its own metaphysical impulses, and show that re<U+FB02>ections upon life, labour, and language, in so far as they have value as analytics of finitude, express the end of metaphysics: the philosophy of life denounces metaphysics as a veil of illusion, that of labour denounces it as an alienated form of thought and an ideology, that of language as a cultural episode."
"The capitalists appear in succession in a series that institutes a kind of creativity of history, a strange menagerie: the schizoid time of the new creative break."
"The director and the participants (who would no longer be actors or spectators) would cease to be the instruments and organs of representation."
"It is more useful to see how classical culture formulates the general structure of its experience of madness."
"Every organism, in its receptive and perceptual elements, but also in its viscera, is a sum of contractions, of retentions and expectations."
"Their solutions were strictly contradictory, but they were both answers to the same problem."
"A practical training curiously independent of the theoretical teaching provided by the university was proposed."
"(It is not surprising that Joyce should have been so interested in Bruno, the theoretician of complicatio.)"
"the positivities by which our empirical forms of knowledge are sustained has remained in suspense; and it is this other half that we must now analyse."
"In fact, what Pinel localized was not the diseases, but the signs: and the local value with which they were invested did not indicate a regional origin, an original locus from which the disease derived both birth and form; it simply made it possible to recognize a disease that gave itself this signal as a characteristic symptom of its essence."
"Consequently, the ambiguity of psychoanalysis in relation to myth or tragedy has the following explanation: psychoanalysis undoes them as objective representations, and discovers in them the figures of a subjective universal libido; but it reanimates them, and promotes them as subjective representations that extend the mythic and tragic contents to infinity."
"This is the second meaning of process as we use the term: man and nature are not like two opposite"
"It was still frequent in the seventeenth century, but started to disappear, and by the year in which Le Fran ois asked the question 'Estne aliquod lunae in corpora humana imperium?'"
"A theater in which a master disposes of the stolen speech which only his slaves his directors and actors may make use of."
"Bataille's atheology is also an a"
"knvs of herds and of seed, sperm flows, flows of shit, menstrual nr'thing must escape coding."
"The transformation is accomplished here, and the work takes place at the level of this ethical perception."
"The little joy lies in schizophrenization as a process, not in the schizo as a clinical entity."
"A whole polemic arose around this issue in the years that immediately preceded the Revolution."
"Scandal thus becomes a form of punishment that is doubly ideal, in that it is immediately fitting to the offence, and also a means of preventing it from taking a criminal form."
"These dogmatic ally determined axioms escape doubt, are never even submitted to its scrutiny, are established only reciprocally, on the basis of the existence and truthfulness of God."
"We rediscover, or find already, this theme of three temporal stages in most cyclical conceptions, such as the three Testaments of Joachim of Flora, or the three ages of Vico: the age of gods, the age of heroes and the age of men."
"A central body would be set up to administer this fund; it would act as the permanent medico economic conscience of the nation; it would be the universal perception of every illness and the immediate recognition of all needs."
"The postulate of recognition was therefore a first step towards a much more general postulate of representation."
"I shall simply remark on a few key points."
"The problems of a society, as they are determined in the infrastructure in the form of so called 'abstract' labour, receive their solution from the process of actualisation or differenciation (the concrete division of labour)."
"Gernet, Droit et predroit en Grece ancienne, 'anmie sociologique."
"Before seeing the object of their passion, the animal spirits are spread throughout the body in order to preserve all the parts in general, but when a new object appears this whole economy is thrown into jeopardy."
"A proposition conceived as a response is always a particular solution, a case considered for itself, abstractly and apart from the superior synthesis which relates it, along with other cases, to a problem as problem."
"Johns Hopkins University Press, ,."
"And this existent is man, determined as face in his essence as man on the basis of his resemblance to God."
"A lengthy experience has demonstrated at this hospital that this is the surest means of returning them to reason."
"apropos of Jean Paul Sartre, that a Marxist philosophy cannot allow itself to introduce the notion of scarcity as its initial premise: Such a scarcity antedating exploitation makes of the law of supply and demand a reality that will remain forever independent, since it is situated at a primordial Ievel."
"but it comes furtively to occupy a place among the collective agents."
"But not I about the present one; or rather we would think about the present one if we knew who he was or knew anything definite about him."
"The science of mental illness, such as it was to develop in the asylums, was only ever of the order of observation and classification."
"and profoundly healing as well."
"For one attempts to neuroticize everything."
"The opium, once absorbed by the entrails, becomes a cloud of insensible atoms which, suddenly penetrating the blood, promptly traverse it, and with the finest elements of the lymph, infiltrate the cortical substance of the brain."
"A community of the question about the possibility of the question."
"re establishes the overly neglected rights of a theory of pure designation."
"In when Jean Colombier and Fran ois Doublet brought out their Instruction sur la mani re de gouverner les insens, more than a century had passed since Willis."
"And above all, what brings about our sickness?"
"On this point, the mistake of the traditional accounts is to impose upon us a dubious alternative: in seeking to dispel the negative, we declare ourselves satisfied if we show that being is full positive reality which admits no non being; conversely, in seeking to ground negation, we are satisfied if we manage to posit, in being itself or in relation to being, some sort of non being (it seems to us that this non being is necessarily the being of the negative or the ground of negation)."
"Flows of property that is sold, flows of money that circulates, flows of production and means of production making ready in the shadows, flows of workers becoming deterritorialized: the encounter of all these flows will be necessary, their conjunction, and their reaction on one another and the contingent nature of this encounter, this conjunction, and this reaction, which occur one time in order for capitalism to be born, and for the old system to die this time from without, at the same time as the new life begins and desire receives its name."
"Against the vapours, spirits are to be reinforced 'by the most revolting odours', as disagreeable sensations strengthen spirits and in effect force them into revolt, so they rush into action to repel the assault."
"Such is the genius of Geoffroy."
"The machine does not run by itself."
"Since the values of these four variables are determinable for any given country, the optimum quantity of coinage for that country can be likewise determined."
"Necessary and impossible, this excess had to fold discourse into strange shapes."
"This is certainly a matter of the utmost urgency: the delay of a single day may mean the death of' several citizens' Inadequately trained doctors and experienced quacks were equally dangerous, especially when the hospitalization of the poor and sick became increasingly difficult."
"This is why writing will never be simple voice painting (Voltaire)."
"The gaze will be fulfilled in its own truth and will have access to the truth of things if it rests on them in silence, if everything keeps silent around what it sees."
"They placed some soup in front of the alienated patient, and ordered him to eat it during the night, unless he wished to experience the most terrible treatment."
", their hidden veins, the space that articulates them, the time that produces them; and then representation, a purely temporal succession, in which those things address themselves (always partially) to a subjectivity, a consciousness, a singular effort of cognition, to the 'psychological' individual who from the depth of his own history, or on the basis of the tradition handed on to him, is trying to know."
"In a late eighteenth century Essay on the Physical and Medical Topography of Paris, Audin Rouvi re explained that Epilepsy, cold humours and paralysis are enough to gain entry to Bic tre, but no attempt is made to cure them with any remedy so a child of or admitted there for convulsions that were reputed to be of an epileptic nature caught among true epileptics an illness that he did not have, and in the long career that should lie before him on account of his youth, his only hope of a cure is the often imperfect efforts of Mother Nature."
"One is refused the reality of the outside world; for the second, its truth is of no importance."
"In either case, difference remains subordinated to identity, reduced to the negative, incarcerated within similitude and analogy."
"The programme was far too broad and too ambitious for a course that lasted for only three years, as it did under the Ancien Regime: 'By demanding too much, one achieves nothing'."
"Even antipsychiatry especially sensitive to the schizophrenic breakthrough and the intense voyage tires out and proposes the image of a subject group that would become immediately reperverted, with former schizos guiding the most recent ones, and, as relays, little chapels, or better yet, a convent in Ceylon."
"The imperatives are those of being, while every question is ontological and distributes 'that which is' among problems."
"There is no bare repetition which may be abstracted or inferred from the disguise itself."
"It exists within man, at the suture of body and soul."
"de Port Royal states that a sign can be inherent in what it designates or separate from it"
"By that very fact, madness appeared, not as the ruse of a hidden meaning, but as a prodigious reserve of meaning."
"This walk outdoors is different from the moments when Lenz finds himself closeted with his pastor, who forces him to situate himself socially, in relationship to the God of established religion, in relationship to his father, to his mother."
"they may he; the abnormal is still a form of regularity: '"
"But this was not to say that the doctor had only a minor role to play at the Retreat: the regular visits that he made to patients, the authority that he exercised in the house, which placed him above the guards, meant that 'The physician, from his office, sometimes possesses more influence over the patients' minds, than the other attendants.'"
"This reverse side is the real inorganization of the molecular elements: partial objects that enter into indirect syntheses or interactions, since they are not partial (partiels) in the sense of extensive parts, but rather partial partiaux like the intensities under which a unit of matter always fills space in varying degrees (the eye, the mouth, the anus as degrees of matter); pure positive multiplicities where everything is possible, without exclusiveness or negation, syntheses operating without a plan, where the connections are transverse, the disjunctions included, the conjunctions polyvocal, indifferent to their underlying support, since this matter that serves them precisely as a support receives no specificity from any structural or personal unity, but appears as the body without organs that fills the space each time an intensity fills it; signs of desire that compose a signifying chain but that are not themselves signifying, and do not answer to the rules of a linguistic game of chess, but instead to the lottery drawings that sometimes cause a word to be chosen, sometimes a design, sometimes a thing or a piece of a thing, depending on one another only by the order of the random drawings, and holding together only by the absence of a link (nonlocalizable connections), having no other statutory condition than that of being dispersed elements of desiring machines that are themselves dispersed.r"
"Breadth is a sign of wealth and importance; continuity denotes good fortune, discontinuity ill fortune."
"The first crisis was violent but short lived, and resulted from the treaty of Aix la Chapelle, bringing an end to the War of the Austrian Succession."
"Why is differenciation differenciated along these two complementary paths?"
"Pierre Clastres describes the solitary hunter who becomes identical with his force and his destiny, and delivers his song in a language that becomes increasingly rapid and distorted: Me, me, me, I am a powerful nature, a nature incensed and aggressive!"
"If one does not follow Levinas when he affirms that the things offered to work or to desirein the Hegelian sense: for example, natural objectivity belong to the ego, to the ego's economy (to the same), and do not offer the absolute resistance reserved for the other (Others); if one is tempted to think that this last resistance supposes, in its innermost meaning, the possibility of the resistance of things the existence of the world which is not myself and in which I am, in as original a way as one may wish, for example as origin of the world within the world, although it is not to be confused with this possibility; if one does not follow Levinas when he affirms that the true resistance to the same is not that of things, is not real but rather is intelligible, and if one rebels against the notion of a purely intelligible resistance, then in all these cases one will follow Levinas no further."
"in the form of residues of the Nietzschean discourse, which have now become the repertory, so to speak, of his histrionicism."
"The history in which the Greek logos is produced cannot be a happy accident providing grounds for understanding to those who understand eschatological prophecy, and to those who do not understand it at all."
"But, when there's money to be lent, A man must be allowed to choose Such times as are convcnicnt.s?"
"In this context, the solid beliefs of the ancient world concerning the salutary effects of the different forms of walking and running were often invoked."
"The sign sovereignty itself, in its opposition to servility, was issued from the same stock as that of lordship."
"According to Laennec, one may speak of degeneration in two precise cases: when one tissue changes into another that exists in a different form and localization in the organism (osseous degeneration of the cartilages, fatty degeneration of the liver); and when a tissue assumes a texture or configuration that has no pre existing model (tuberculous degeneration of the lymphatic glands or of the pulmonary parenchyma; scirrhous degeneration of the ovaries or testicles)."
"But a closer look reveals that this thread is broken, and in more than one place."
"Reflections, echoes, doubles and souls do not belong to thedomain of resemblance or equivalence; and it is no more possible to exchange one's soul than it is to substitute real twins for one another."
"The place of effraction can be only the opening of an orifice."
"Nerval's Sylvie already introduced us into this theatre, and the Gradiva, so close to a Nervalian inspiration, shows us the hero who lives at once both repetition as such and the repeated which is always disguised in the repetition."
"Consider a terrified face (under conditions such that I do not see and do not experience the causes of this terror)."
"It is not that words are imperfect, or that, when confronted by the visible, they prove insuperably inadequate."
"Two forms of madness corresponded almost exactly to those two forms of experience: insania, which was 'widely conceived', particularly 'with the addition of foolishness', and furor, a far more serious matter that Roman law had recognised since the law of the Twelve Tables."
"Bartholin returned them to their wits 'by wrapping up their heads in the fleece of a freshly skinned sheep'."
"Desiring production also exists from the beginning: there is desiring production from the moment there is social production and reproduction."
"Theodorus looked for it, and found there the history of Sextus in a form more ample titan the outline he had seen."
"Art brut is edited by Jean Dubuffet."
"Decency and everyday life incorrectly lead us to believe that the other is known through sym pathy, as an other like myself, as alter ego."
"It comes up against a form of complication that doctors call prison or hospital fever: muscular asthenia, dry or coated tongue, livid face, sticky skin, diarrhoea, pale urine, difficulty in breathing, death on the eighth or eleventh day, or on the thirteenth at the latest."
"It is only in the night of madness that light is possible, a light that disappears when the shadow that it forces to flee begins to vanish."
"Its exterior form would be that of a rupture and a redoubling."
"Any hesitation between the virtual and the possible, the order of the Idea and the order of the concept, is disastrous, since it abolishes the reality of the virtual."
"the enigma of dream is taken up in the secondary elaboration that makes dream as narration and as event take precedence over dream as a working over of thoughts."
"It is in one and the same movement that the mind speaks and knows: 'It is by the same processes that one learns to speak and that one discovers either the principles of the world's system or those of the human mind's operations, that is, all that is sublime in our knowledge'."
"Thus the synthetic, designating speech of knowledge is confronted by the audible language of nature in a chronicle of observations that form a mixed syntax a sort of neutral, arbitrary language."
"A molar functionalism is therefore a functionalism that did not go far enough, that did not reach those regions where desire engineers, independently of the macroscopic nature of what it is engineering: organic, social, linguistic, etc., elements, all tossed into the same pot to stew."
"Dormiens, I can continue my meditation: I am still qualified to think; and so I make my resolution:"
"Not a theoretical interrogation, however, but a total question, a distress and denuding, a supplication, a demanding prayer addressed to a freedom, that is, to a commandment: the only possible ethical imperative, the only incarnated nonviolence in that it is respect for the other."
"As such, it has three senses."
"Is this relationship to be considered causal?"
"So that was what this meant. ."
"And if we must, for once, have faith in him who stands most accused in the trial conducted by this book, the result is nothing without its becoming.'"
"At the moment when language, as spoken and scattered words, becomes an object of knowledge, we see it reappearing in a strictly opposite modality: a silent, cautious deposition of the word upon the whiteness of a piece of paper, where it can possess neither sound nor interlocutor, where it has nothing to say but itself, nothing to do but shine in the brightness of its being."
"They inform the whole language of limits and properties, they constitute the structure of phenomena as such."
"Oedipus is belief injected into the unconscious, it is what gives us faith as it robs us of power, it is what teaches us to desire our own repression."
"In modern thought, what is revealed at the foundation of the history of things and of the historicity proper to man is the distance creating a vacuum within the Same, it is the hiatus that disperses and regroups it at the two ends of itself."
"L Organic localization intervenes only as a residual method where the rule of tissual isomorphism cannot operate; Morgagni is used again only for lack of a more adequate reading of pathological phenomena."
"This is even more true of concepts of freedom and nominal concepts."
"This is perhaps the first assembling of formal operations that will lead to Oedipus (the paralogism of extrapolation): a flattening out or a set of biunivocal relations that leads to the breakaway and elevation of a detached object, and the linearization of the chain that derives from this object."
"The single, sacrosanct foundation must be dissolved in favor of a generalized system of assistance, of which society is both the sole administrator and the undifferentiated beneficiary."
"Which is why originary must be understood as having been crossed out, without which differance would be derived from an original plenitude."
"Here we find ourselves on the threshold of the nineteenth century, where the irritability of the fibres was to have its own physiological and pathological destiny."
"But if there is a functional identity between inflammation and fever"
"It is the constituent form, since it is on language that all the cycles in which it reveals its nature rely."
"In this sense the primitive and the barbarian, with their ways of coding death, are children in comparison to modern man and his axiomatic (so many unemployed are needed, so many deaths, the Algerian War doesn't kill more people than weekend automobile accidents."
"But what water will cleanse these concepts of their background, their previous existences religiosity?"
"his tricks, his impudence, his verbose argumentativity, his high sounding errors. ."
"Only rich daughters found husbands, 'the others being reduced to other means of satisfaction that ruin the body and disturb the manifestations of the soul."
"The stethoscope is the measure of a prohibition transformed into disgust, and a material obstacle:"
"that 'take the side, so to speak' of the spirits, 'helping them conquer the cause that put them in a ferment'."
"In Boissier de Sauvages published Nouvelles classes, which multiplied the old world of the sicknesses of the mind, adding to the four or five species commonly accepted at the time of Willis or Boerhaave the long series of all the vesaniae."
"In its other variety, the 'liquid form', the humours are impregnated with black bile, and become thickened, and filled with that humour the blood becomes denser and stagnates in the meninges, compressing the principal organs of the nervous system."
"Action is constituted, in the order of generality and in the field of variables which correspond to it, only by the contraction of elements of repetition."
"The social field, where everyone acts and is acted upon (patit) as a collective agent of enunciation, an agent of production and antiproduction, is reduced to Oedipus, where everyone now finds himself cornered and cut along the line that divides him into an individual subject of the statement and an individual subject of enunciation."
"This had to be the last scene of the first great classical tragedy; or equally the first time that the classical truth of madness is pronounced, in a tragic movement that is the last one on the pre classical stage."
"It will be entirely contained within a pathology."
"After all, of the three supposed phases of the girl's fantasy, the first is such that the father does not yet appear, while in the third the father no longer appears: that leaves the second, then, where the father shines forth in all his brilliance, clearly I without doubt but indeed, this second phase has never had a real existence."
"In the dream of a truly universal good sense, one which attaches the feeling of the absolute to partial truths, along with the moon to the earth, this equalisation and homogenisation do not occur only in each partial system, but continue from one system to another."
"During this period they are positioned at the point where error meets moral failing within this region of unreason which is difficult for us to understand."
"Two very different conceptions of the limit, one as original matrix, the other as structural function."
"If she is obstinate, the cold shower is repeated, but care is taken to avoid a harsh tone or words that might shock or offend; she is made to understand that it is for her good and that recourse is regretfully made to measures of such violence; sometimes a joke is made of it, although care must be taken that it does not go too far."
"For madness unleashes its fury in the space of pure vision."
"It is the concourse of the accidents that constitute it."
"For when Freud shows beyond repression 'properly speaking', which bears upon representations the necessity of supposing a primary repression which concerns first and foremost pure presentations, or the manner in which the drives are necessarily lived, we believe that he comes closest to a positive internal principle of repetition."
"This is the originality of sufficient reason: better to ensure the subjection of difference to the quadripartite yoke."
"And if the pole of metaphysical transcendence is a spatial nonheight, what, in the last analysis, legitimates the expression of transascendance, borrowed from Jean Wahl?"
"It is the work or the absence of the work."
"And to the privileged moment of the sovereign operation, even if it took place only once, rather than to the concept or meaning of sovereignty."
"The species that resembles the human heart, and for that reason is named Anthropocardite. ."
"And the syntax governing the succession of word gestures will no longer be a grammar of predication, a logic of clear thinking or of a knowing consciousness."
"Earlier, physical matter provided repetition with its primary sense, and the other senses (biological, psychic, metaphysical.) were said by analogy."
"(Renan: On the Origin of Language."
"Exchange is therefore that which increases values (by giving rise to new utilities which, at least indirectly, satisfy needs); but it is equally that which diminishes values (in relation to one another, in the appreciation made of each)."
"What other means is phenomenality as disappearance."
"But no matter how large the extraction of profits, it does not define capitalism."
"This entire struggle for the phallus, this poorly understood will to power, this anthropomorphic representation of sex, this whole conception of sexuality that horrifies Lawrence precisely because it is no more than a conception, because it is an idea that reason imposes on the unconscious and introduces into the passional sphere, and is not by any means a formation of this sphere here is where desire finds itself trapped, specifically limited to human sex, unified and identified in the molar constellation."
"The Kantian moment is the link between the two: it is the discovery that the subject, in so far as he is reasonable, applies to himself his own law, which is the universal law."
"At the end of Malone Dies, Lady Pedal takes the schizophrenics out for a ride in a van and a rowboat, and on a picnic in the midst of nature: an infernal machine is being assembled."
": thought is determined in such a manner that it grasps its own cogitandum only at the extremity of the fuse of violence which, from one Idea to another, first sets in motion sensibility and its sentiendum, and so on."
"Delirium is in fact characteristic of the recording that is made of the process of production of the desiring machines; and though there are syntheses and disorders (affections) that are peculiar to this recording process, as we see in paranoia and even in the paranoid forms of schizophrenia, it does not constitute an autonomous sphere, for it depends on the functioning and the breakdowns of desiring machines."
"Pamphlets, passionate defences and law cases followed: his lawyer certified him to be 'an empty head, a hollowed out pumpkin free of all common sense, a reed, a dismembered brain without a single spring or wheel in place'."
"Liberals and economists considered that social duty meant the duty of men in society, and not a duty of society itself."
"That experience can be summed up and almost symbolised in a single word that constantly recurs in all the registers of confinement."
"The political ascetics, the sad militants, the terrorists of theory, those who would preserve the pure order of politics and political discourse."
"Somewhat like the architecture of an uninhabited or deserted city, reduced to its skeleton by some catastrophe of nature or art."
"And everybody knows what psychoanalysis means by resolving Oedipus: internalizing it so as to better rediscover it on the outside, in social authority, where it will be made to proliferate and be passed on to the children. '"
"On the limited usefulness of the microscope ibid, pp."
"mtereste subjects but also drunken or slumbering subjects toward lethal destiifi nations."
"Freud doubtless conceives of the facilitations, does not borrow but produces its own signifiers; does not dream as a displacement similar to an original form of writing which create them in their materiality, of course, but produces their status as puts words on stage without becoming subservient to them; and he is meaningful (signifiance)."
"Is your mother's name Molloy too?"
"This indeed is the night of classical unreason, the triple night into which Oreste was locked."
"What is at stake here is not a negative gesture of exclusion, but of a whole ensemble of operations that slowly gave shape over a century and a half to a realm of experience where madness would recognise itself, before gradually taking it over entirely."
"From his very earliest infancy, the child has a wide ranging life of desire a whole set of nonfamilial relations with the objects and the machines of desire that is not related to the parents from the point of view of immediate production, but that is ascribed to them (with either love or hatred) from the point of view of the recording of the process, and in accordance with the very special conditions of this recording, including the effect of these conditions upon the process itself (feedback)."
"For Oedipus to be occupied, it is not enough that it be a limit or a displaced represented in the system of representation; it must migrate to the heart of this system and itself come to occupy the position of the representative of desire."
"The people do not know what emperor is reigning, and there exist doubts regarding even the name of the dynasty )?"
"Such an interpretation or determination of the illegible already belongs to the book, is enveloped within the possibility of the volume."
"When Freud writes in the Project that facilitations serve the primary function, he is forbidding us to be surprised by Beyond the Pleasure Principle."
"When the division extends to the earth itsd!, by virtue of an administration that is landed and residential, this cani'ui be regarded as a promotion of territoriality; on the contrary, it is ralL,;, 'iS, the effect of the first great movement of deterritorialization on the primitive communes."
"Freud's language is caught up in it."
":' Discourse is discourse with God."
"But one cannot say the same about the transition within phenomenology this time from the structural analyses of static constitution practiced in Ideen I to the analyses of genetic constitution which follow, and which are sometimes quite new in their content."
"With the overdetermination of the image of blood, we find ourselves here in a different region of therapeutic efficacy, in the realm of symbolic values."
"Having tried in the previous chapters to analyse thedomain of confinement and the forms of consciousness that the practice involved, our intention in what follows is to recreate thedomain of recognition and knowledge of madness that was proper to the classical age."
"Underneath the self which acts are little selves which contemplate and which render possible both the action and the active subject."
"However free of prejudice it might be, however distant from all forms of constraint and oppression, it remains a way of having taken control of madness already."
"To say madness without expelling it into objectivity is to let it say itself"
"He thereby overcomes homonymity on its own ground and inscribes the maximum difference within repetition, where this is the space opened up in the heart of a word."
"A condition of pure reciprocity manifested by the observing and observed mirror, the two stages of which are uncoupled at the two lower corners of the picture: on the left the canvas with its back to us, by means of which the exterior point is made into pure spectacle; to the right the dog lying on the <U+FB02>oor, the only element in the picture that is neither looking at anything nor moving, because it is not intended, with its deep reliefs and the light playing on its silky hair, to be anything but an object to be seen."
"A medicine of epidemics is opposed at every point to a medicine of classes, just as the collective perception of a phenomenon that is widespread but unique and unrepeatable may be opposed to the individual perception of the identity of an essence as constantly revealed in the multiplicity of phenomena."
"Cantin suggested that once the rudiments had been taught, the candidate doctors would be sent either to a hospital or to the countryside, where they would attain practical experience as assistants to already qualified doctors; for very often what is needed is an extra pair of hands, and patients rarely need highly qualified doctors."
"(To a certain extent, didn't this amount to a reintroduction of the error or the illusion?)"
"All that needs to be done is to push the illusion until it reaches the truth."
"That internal dryness and heat were further proved by the ease with which maniacs could tolerate extremes of cold."
"Although Van Horne, in the latter half of the seventeenth century, distinguished between arachnoid and pia mater, many authors, like Lieutaud, still confused the two."
"And Miller continues: Reality is here and now, everywhere, gleaming through every reflection that meets the eye."
"Twenty or thirty drops of elixir of vitriol was a sovereign remedy."
"The beyond of the closure of the book is neither to be awaited nor to be refound."
"In the inextricable mixture of moral and physical contagion, and by virtue of the symbolism of the Impure so familiar to the eighteenth century, antique images resurfaced in the minds of men."
"By contrast with extensive quantities, intensive quantities are therefore defined by the enveloping difference, the enveloped distances, and the unequal in itself which testifies to the existence of a natural 'remainder' which provides the material for a change of nature."
"For if this third time, the future, is the proper place of decision, it is entirely likely that, by virtue of its nature, it eliminates the two intracyclic and extracyclic hypotheses; that it undoes them both and puts time into a straight line, straightening it out and extracting the pure form; in other words, it takes time out of 'joint' and, being itself the third repetition, renders the repetition of the other two impossible."
": how is it that thought has a place in the space of the world, that it has its origin there, and that it never ceases, in this place or that, to begin anew?"
"This objection, however, applies only to the extent that the faculty of Ideas according to Mai'mon is the understanding, just as it was reason according to Kant; that is, in either case, a faculty which constitutes a common sense and cannot tolerate the presence within itself of a kernel on which the empirical exercise of the conjoint faculties would break."
"lastly and here we meet the Physiocrats"
"A history of writing, an immense field in which only work has been done up to now; however admirable this work has been, it still gives way, beyond its empirical discoveries, to unbridled speculation."
"In anatomo clinical experience, the medical eye must see the illness spread before it, horizontally and vertically in graded depth, as it penetrates into the body, as it advances into its bulk, as it circumvents or lifts its masses, as it descends into its depths."
"I subscribe entirely to the necessity of sufficiently isolating these few words."
"Each well grounded image or claim is called a representation icone since the first in the order of claims"
"In the projects of the Comite des Secours, two authorities are juxtaposed: the ordinary, which, because of the distribution of aid, involves a continuous supervision of the social space with a system of highly medicalized regional centres; and the extra ordinary, which is made up of discontinuous, exclusively medical spaces, structured according to the model of scientific knowledge."
"When the eighteenth century confined as insane a 'deranged mind inventing its own devotion' or a priest because no sign of charity could be found in him, the judgement that sentenced that form of madness did not mask a moral presupposition, but simply made manifest the ethical division between madness and reason."
"But in any case the relation remained of an external nature."
"The machine is dead."
"In this form it is the correlate of the passive self which appears in time."
"So that the great narrative of Juliette's life reveals, throughout the desire, violence, savagery, and death, the glittering table of representation."
"Sensibility and movement are not distinguished."
"For mad Later: in the economy of doubt,ness, it is otherwise."
"I father, to oedipalize even the schizo, and to show that a gap in the Symbolic would bring us back to the Imaginary, and inversely that imaginary drivel or confusions would lead us to the structure!"
"This knowledge is in him, it is immersed in him and acts in him, but acts like something hidden, like a blocked representation."
"the utmost importance must be attached to the substantive form: multiplicity must not designate a combination of the many and the one, but rather an organisation belonging to the many as such, which has no need whatsoever of unity in order to form a system."
"Madness was no longer to be inscribed in the negativity of existence, as one of its most brutal figures, but now progressively took its place in the positivity of known things."
"(That is what have a ready seen in psychosis, where the intrusion of the complex mto consciousness, according to the traditional criterion, did not, to be ure, lleviate t?e repression of desire.)"
"That polyvalence of course, and the discussions to which it gave rise, were ultimately its neutralisation."
", I re partie (Œuvres compl tes,."
"For this reason, several branches of medicine have declined since the destruction of the learned societies."
"But on a deeper level there is also to be found a rigorous organisation that follows the faultless structure of a discourse."
"Limitation and opposition are first and second dimension surface effects, whereas the living depths, the diagonal, is populated by differences without negation."
"This goes beyond the simple identity of contraries as the identity of the positive and negative."
"If it leaves behind a chance survivor, it does so unbeknownst to itself, like the flower of the fields after the harvest."
"In any representation, the mind can attach itself, and attach a verbal sign, to one element of that representation, to a circumstance attending it, to some other, absent, thing that is similar to it and is recalled to memory on account of it."
"It must therefore reduce this distance between them so as to bring language as close as possible to the observing gaze, and the things observed as close as possible to words."
"the permissive structure: let me deceive, rob, slaughter, kill!"
"Everything points in the opposite direction"
"Languages, though imperfect knowledge themselves, are the faithful memory of the progress of knowledge towards perfection."
"Only the mad and people who are sleeping."
"He was confined instead for six years at Saint Lazare, and once freed, given the order to retire to his native town of Noyon."
"These two figures subsist alone in this confinement emptied of a part of its contents, and between them they symbolise all that is necessary in it: from this point on, they alone are that which merited confinement."
"In any case, the unthought has accompanied man, mutely and uninterruptedly, since the nineteenth century."
"All molar functionalism is false, since the organic or social machines are not formed in the same way they function, and the technical machines are not assembled in the same way they are used, but imply precisely the specific conditions that separate their own production from their distinct product."
"and this is the fourth point"
"But the attentive immobility of his eyes refers us back to another direction which they have often followed already, and which soon, there can be no doubt, they will take again: that of the motionless canvas upon which is being traced, has already been traced perhaps, for a long time and forever, a portrait that will never again be erased."
"For castration as an analyzable state or nonanalyzable; the ultimate rock is the effect of castration as a psychoanalytic act."
"name indicates, cannot speak and above all must not answer back."
"And yet it is a fact:"
"In the medicine of species, this effacement of particular modifications was assured only by a positive operation: in order to accede to the purity of essence, it was first necessary to possess it, and then to use it to obliterate the excessively rich content of experience; it was necessary, by a prior choice, 'to distinguish what is constant from what is variable in it, the essential from the purely accidental'."
"As with the libertines, the bauch and the ruffians of the late seventeenth century, it is difficult to say if they were mad, ill or simply criminal."
"It is likely that in the Lisbon Temptation, many of the fantastical figures who cover the canvas are borrowed from traditional masques, and some of them may even be transposed from the Malleus Maleficarum."
"We must show not only how individuating difference differs in kind from specific difference, but primarily and above all how individuation properly precedes matter and form, species and parts, and every other element of the constituted individual."
"It is a shameful materialism in that it is complete, for at heart materialism is not primarily sensualism, but a recognized primacy of the neutral."
"Merleau Ponty, on the other hand, undoubtedly followed a more thoroughly Heideggerian inspiration in speaking of 'folds' and 'pleating' (by contrast with Sartrean 'holes' and 'lakes of non being') from The Phenomenology of Perception onwards, and in returning to an ontology of difference and questioning in his posthumous book"
"It is as though Difference were evil and already negative, so that it could produce affirmation only by expiation that is, by assuming at once both the weight of that which is denied and negation itself."
"He is again correct in linking writing to incest in a mysterious fashion."
"His references to all sorts of games, notably to roulette, are very frequent, especially in his Conversations, in Race and History, and in The Savage Mind."
"And the most concrete form of this justice, its most visible symbol, was no longer to be the chain an absolute, punitive restriction that 'invariably wounds the flesh it rubs against' but the new, soon to be famous straitjacket, 'a close fitting canvas shirt, which constrains and contains the arms', designed to progressively hinder movements as their violence increased."
"And Tournefort thought that, in order to gain a knowledge of plants, 'rather than scrutinize each of their variations with a religious scruple', it was better to analyse them 'as they fall beneath the gaze'."
"The Greek miracle is not this or that, such and such astonishing success; it is the impossibil ity for any thought ever to treat its sages as sages of the outside, according to the expression of Saint John Chrysostom."
"Problems and their symbolic fields stand in a relationship with signs."
"A sagittal figure of knowledge."
"The law of the double bind operates relentlessly, ruthlessly, flinging us from one pole to the other, in such a way that what is foreclosed in the Symbolic must reappear in the Real in a hallucinatory form."
"But above all, is this not already a new chance for the philosophy of difference?"
"But for our sake, we must not make the mistake of reading the precise, sure, and scrupulous descriptions he gives us of this state as psychological analyses."
"That is, again, two questions in one: Does it have the historical meaning assigned to it?"
"Selle, Introduction I'etude de la nature ("
"Not only are they able to do without the concept of man, they are also unable to pass through it, for they always address themselves to that which constitutes his outer limits."
"In assigning to disease silent paths in the enclosed world of bodies, pathological anatomy reduces the importance of clinical symptoms and substitutes for a methodology of the visible a more complex experience in which truth emerges from its inaccessible reserve only in the passage to the inert, to the violence of the dissected corpse, and hence to forms in which living signification withdraws in favour of a massive geometry."
"Jesus on the Cross was the scandal of the world, and it looked like ignorance and madness to the eyes of that century.'"
"The work of Bonaventure Forcroy had a certain echo in the closing years of the reign of Louis."
"He even plays on them, occasionally (ci, for example, Le livre de l'absent,."
"However small the internal difference between the two series"
"The poet fulfils the opposite function: his is the allegorical role; beneath the language of signs and beneath the interplay of their precisely delineated distinctions, he strains his ears to catch that 'other language', the language, without words or discourse, of resemblance."
"The negative is both shadow of the problem and false problem par excellence."
"It is that by prohibiting chance and by repressing the play of the machine, this new theatrical arrangement sutures all the gaps, all the openings, all the differences."
"On the other hand, what is the essence of repetition one which is not reducible to difference without concept, and cannot be confused with the apparent character of objects represented by the same concept, but bears witness to singularity as a power of Ideas?"
"Thus Lyotard everywhere reverses the order of the signifier and the figure."
"Paradoxically, the return to the questions of the De Sedibus was made on the basis of a problem in the grouping of symptoms and in the ordering of diseases."
"Many medical officers were very lacking in training and experience."
"But what is important for the constitution of philology is not so much knowing whether the elements of conjugation may, at some more or less distant period in the past, have enjoyed the benefit of an isolated existence carrying with it an autonomous value; what is essential, and what distinguishes the analyses of Schlegel and Bopp from those that may perhaps have seemed to anticipate them in the eighteenth century, is that the original syllables do not grow (by means of internal adjunctions or proliferations) without a certain number of modifications regulated within the root."
"Nothing could be further from that conception of libertinage than the idea of a free choice made in a reasoned manner, all spoke instead of the bondage into which reason had been forced, to the flesh, to money and the passions, and when Sade, for the first time in the eighteenth century, tried to come up with a coherent theory of a form of libertinage that until then had led a secret existence, it was exactly that slavery that was exalted: any libertine who wished to enter the Society of the Friends of Crime had to agree to commit any actions 'to which the slightest passing whim might lead him, no matter how revolting it might be'."
"However, it defines this past as the improbable or the less probable."
"The quantity of coinage in circulation causes prices to rise, while at the same time affording private persons the resources to buy abroad, where prices are lower: little by little, the metal disappears, and the state becomes poor once again."
"But when he proceeds conquest asserts itself."
"The continuity of the structure vertically through time is adequately expressed through the agnatic transmission of a patrilineage name."
"This space is still presented by Roussel as one of masks and death, in which is developed both a repetition which enchains and a repetition which saves which saves above all from the one which enchains."
"Thus we see glowing into life the luminous element in which language and learning, correct discourse and knowledge, universal language and analysis of thought, the history of mankind and the sciences of language freely communicate."
"The sciences are well made languages, just as languages are sciences lying fallow."
"Sometimes Foucault globally rejects the language of reason, which itself is the language of order (that is to say, simultaneously the language of the system of objectivity, of the universal rationality of which psychiatry wishes to be the expression, and the language of the body, politic the right to citizenship in the philosopher's city overlapping here with the right to citizenship anywhere, the philosophical realm functioning, within the unity of a certain structure, as the metaphor or the metaphysics of the political realm)."
"Or there is the psychoanalyst aspriest, the pious psychoanalyst who is forever chanting the incurable insufficiency of being:"
"Customarily, the honour of having liberated hysteria from the ancient myths about a displacement of the uterus goes to Le Pois and Willis."
"The passions necessarily cause certain movements in the humours: anger agitates the bile, sadness, melancholy, and the movements of the humours are sometimes so violent that they overturn the entire economy of the body and even bring death."
"It was directly linked to the king, yet at bottom it is not an illustration of the arbitrary nature of despotism, but rather of the newly rigorous character of the demands of family."
"The third repetition distributes them in accordance with the straight line of time, but also eliminates them, determining them to operate only once and for all, keeping the 'all times' for the third time alone."
"Hence the coupling that takes place within the partial object flow connective synthesis also has another form: product/producing."
"Moreover, it is not even visible."
"It reigns on a world without darkness, which knows neither effusiveness nor the gentle charms of lyricism."
"Everything in this system is active, acted upon, or reacted to: the action of the voice of alliance, the passion."
"Half remaining in the shadows, this experience of unreason changes little from Rameau's Nephew up until Raymond Roussel and Antonin Artaud."
"They are books furnished with structures, the space in which characteristics combine, and in which classifications are physically displayed."
"It lacks its own identity."
"since its existence no longer rests at the center of its person, but has hidden itself in several far off and impregnable locations (pp."
"Doubtless, but then one must, in a certain way, become classical once more, and again find other grounds for the divorce between speech and thought."
"From the moment death was introduced into a technical and conceptual organon, disease was able to he both spatialized and individualized."
"In a highly symbolic position he is placed on the inside of the outside, or vice versa."
"This has often been commented upon for stereoscopic images."
"The latter moves out from the prosperous states into the regions where prices are low; whereas men are attracted towards high wages, therefore towards countries that have an abundant coinage at their disposal."
"It broke the unity which previously held together a system of practices and the beliefs not only of those who made use of the arts in question, but also of those who sat in judgement upon them."
"It had long been known and well before Plato's Cratylus that signs can be either given by nature or established by man."
"Returning is being, but only the being of becoming."
"the consonant being either terminal or initial; in the first case, the vowel is necessarily initial; in the second, it may be followed by a second consonant which serves it as a support (as in the root ma, mad, which gives metiri in Latin and messen in German)."
"But through this process of taking responsibility for the poor and unable, cities and states prepared the way to a new form of sensibility to poverty."
"Even the schizo's stroll or voyage does not effect great deterritorializations without borrowing from territorial circuits:"
"But here all the parts figure as cogs and wheels in the State machine."
"But here a new signification intervenes, one that panorography immediately transcribes in a new dimension."
"Thus salvation, status, uprightness will be possible only in an art without works."
"Impossible animals, the fruit of mad imaginings, became the secret nature of man, and in images of the Last Judgement, when man appears in the hideous nudity of his fallen state, he has taken on the monstrous face of a delirious animal."
"such is the fatal limit of a cruelty which begins with its own representation."
"The revolution against reason, in the histor ical form of classical reason (but the latter is only a determined example of Reason in general."
"The entire Dogon mythology is a patrilineal version of the opposition between the two genealogies and the two filiations: in intensity and in extension, the intense germinal order and the extensive regime of the somatic generations."
"Throughout its density, even down to the most archaic of those sounds that first rescued it from its state as pure cry, language preserves its representative function; in each one of its articulations, from the depths of time, it has always named."
"In addition to Nietzsche they also found it necessary to listen to others: to Miller and Lawrence and Kafka and Beckett, to Proust and Reich and Foucault, to Burroughs and Ginsberg, each of whom had different insights concerning madness and dissension, politics and desire."
"This distinction had an objective correlative: the officers of health would treat 'the industrious and active people'."
"This is why such is the concept of true suicide according to Artaud I must die away from my death in order to be reborn immortal at the eve of my birth."
"The prosperities of Juliette are still more solitary and endless."
"And perhaps the deferred but insistent unity of a Taxinomia universalis appeared in all clarity in the work of Linnaeus, when he conceived the project of discovering in all the concretedomains of nature or society the same distributions and the same order."
"It is because this object constantly circulates, always displaced in relation to itself, that it determines transformations of terms and modifications of imaginary relations within the two real series in which it appears, and therefore between the two presents."
"Such a resemblance, despite the fact that it sows confusion among reasonable men, serves reason itself."
"It is still a question of discourse."
"Moreover, since there is no longer any conceptual difference between the ultimate determinable concepts among which the same is distributed, the world of representation finds itself in the grip of a network of analogies which makes difference and repetition simple concepts of reflection."
"By contrast, the good throw of the dice affirms all of chance in one throw, and it is here that we find the essence of what is called a question."
"It is always possible to use the term incest, as well as indifference to incest, for this regime composed of one and the same being or flow, varying in intensity according to inclusive disjunctions."
"In this sense the antiproduction apparatus ceases to be transcendent, and pervades all production and becomes coextensive with it."
"Between the two is nothing, a void, an absence, almost tangible in its obviousness, of what madness as a general and concrete form would be, as a real element in which the mad would recognise themselves, the deeper ground where the signs of insanity should grow in all their surprising particularity."
"Cheapness is neither more nor less exact than dearness."
"The debate began between Malinowski and Jones, it continued between Kardiner and Fromm on one side, and Roheim on the other."
"They were considered as children, who have too much strength, and who make a dangerous use of it."
"Having become a public, disinterested, supervised activity, medicine could improve indefinitely; in the alleviation of physical misery, it would be close to the old spiritual vocation of the Church, of which it would be a sort of lay carbon copy."
"Identity is no less conserved in each component representation than in the whole of infinite representation as such."
"Anthropology constitutes perhaps the fundamental arrangement that has governed and controlled the path of philosophical thought from Kant until our own day."
"As Linnaeus says, the naturalist whom he calls Historiens naturalis 'distinguishes the parts of natural bodies with his eyes, describes them appropriately according to their number, form, position, and proportion, and he names them'."
"whatever of the second recalling the first, causing it to reappear, and thus authorizing its representation in the imagination; those impressions would succeed one another in the most total differentiation so total that it could not even be perceived, since no representation would be able to immobilize itself in one place, reanimate a former one, and juxtapose itself to it so as to give rise to a comparison; even that tiny overlap of identity necessary for all differentiation would not be provided."
"On the contrary, through the insistence of his metaphoric investment he makes what we believe we know under the name of writing enigmatic."
"But Nietzsche wanted us finally to pass on to serious things."
"Erich Fromm, apropos of the analysis of Little Hans in particular, has pointed to the increasingly clear evolution of Freud, who comes to posit the child's guilt and exonerate parental authority; The Crisisof Psychoanalysis (New York: Fawcett., pp."
"Apparently, under the in<U+FB02>uence of Descartes, they were mechanistic to begin with, and continued to be so to the end of the seventeenth century; then the first efforts of an infant chemistry made its imprint upon them, but throughout the eighteenth century the vitalist themes are thought to have attained or returned to their privileged status, finally coalescing to form a unitary doctrine that 'vitalism' which in slightly differing forms was professed by Bordeu and Barthez in Montpellier, by Blumenbach in Germany, and by Diderot then Bichat in Paris."
"And in a light still dim, on the fringes of philosophy and medicine, psychology and history, with a naivety that all the disquiet of the nineteenth century and indeed our own age have yet to dispel, it proposed a very rudimentary concept of alienation, which allowed the human milieu to be defined as the negativity of man, in which the concrete a priori of all forms of madness were to be discerned."
"Problems have an objective value, while Ideas in some sense have an object. '"
"And at the same time it is one of the forms of sensibility: 'All sympathy or consent supposes feeling, and therefore must be owing to the nerves, which are the sole instruments of sensation.'"
"For the real, whatever upheaval we subject it to, is always in its place; it carries it glued to its heel, ignorant of what might exile it from it."
"But the fact that all these observations must be made does not necessarily mean that their development occurs within the element of pure contradiction; their existence, and their untiring repetition for more than a century, do not indicate the permanence of an ever open question; they refer back to a precise and extremely well determined epistemological arrangement in history."
"Descartes, when he wonders quaenam veto est haec cera, can reduce its essence to the timeless simplicity of an intelligible object."
"But these two series of problems were linked, since the metal appeared only as a sign, and as a sign for measuring wealth, in so far as it was itself wealth."
"For Levinas, on the contrary, desire is the respect and knowledge of the other as other, the ethico metaphysical moment whose transgression consciousness must forbid itself According to Hegel, on the contrary, this gesture of transgression and assimilation is necessary and essential."
"Also the criticism Leach addresses to Levi Strauss:"
"One might say that the unconscious as a real subject has scattered an apparent residual and nomadic subject around the entire compass of its cycle, a subject that passes by way of all the becomings corresponding to the included disjunctions: the last part of the desiring machine, the adjacent part."
"Thedomain of the modern episteme should be represented rather as a volume of space open in three dimensions."
"The modern cogito (and this is why it is not so much the discovery of an evident truth as a ceaseless task constantly to be undertaken afresh)"
"Unreason thus comes to the fore with the whole network of meanings that classicism had placed within its bounds, a field of experience too secret ever to be formulated in clear terms, and from the Renaissance to the modern era too reprehensible to be granted a right of expression, but of sufficient importance to have sustained the institution of confinement, and forced a reconsideration of the conception and practices surrounding madness and a thorough readjustment of the world of ethics."
"On the other hand, it alone doubles the capital and the flow of knowledge with a capital and an equivalent flow of stupidity that also effects an absorption and a realization, and that ensures the integration of groups and individuals into the system."
"A painter such as Tintoretto paints the creation of the world like a race represented in its whole length with God Himself on the sidelines, giving the starting signal across the track as the figures speed away in a transversal direction."
"Sense is constituted in the complex theme, but the complex theme is that set of problems and questions in relation to which the propositions serve as elements of response and cases of solution."
"Death is not desired, there is only death that desires, by virtue of the body without organs or the immobile motor, and there is also life that desires, by virtue of the working organs."
"In any case, this historical series of events is an addition to the expanse of beings: it does not properly appertain to it; its development lies in the real dimension of the world, not the analytic one of classifications; what it calls into question is the world as a locus for beings, not the beings themselves in so far as they have the property of being alive."
"compression the specific difference of the colour black, dissociation that of the colour white."
"One is developed and must be explicated; the other is enveloped and must be interpreted."
"We should have to study together, genetically and structurally, the history of the road and the history of writing."
"Metaphor as a rhetorical or didactic device is possible here only through the solid metaphor, the unnatural, historical production of a supplementary machine, added to the psychical organization in order to supplement its finitude."
"What is more, the objective conditions for such a practice appear to be already present."
"In these conditions, it is not enough to say that individuation differs in kind from the determination of species."
"But it was not to give them a common psychology that would denounce the same mechanism of madness in both."
"In other words, in order that one thing can represent another in an exchange, they must both exist as bearers of value; and yet value exists only within the representation (actual or possible), that is, within the exchange or the exchangeability."
"But he believes that he will be able to surmount it, no doubt, because fundamentally he admits three postulates."
"me a being who wanted one day to be god when this is not possible, God being able to manifest himself only all at once, given that he manifests himself an infinite number of times during all the times of eternity as the infinity of times and eternity, which creates perpetuity (September."
"When Hellenists place themselves in opposition to the Freudian Oedipus, it should not be thought that they put forward other interpretations to replace the psychoanalytic interpretation."
"Therefore I must no longer trust them."
", Nietzschean, repetition:"
"The solidity, without gaps, of a network of species and genera, and the series of events that have blurred that network, both belong, at the same level, to the epistemological foundation that made a body of knowledge like natural history possible in the Classical age."
"Nor must we attach importance, as Buxtorf did, to the different persons of the verb, for these can also be designated by certain pronouns."
"The guard approached one of them and took him to one side: 'Why', she said, 'are you bothering to argue with those people, who are obviously mad?"
"We are at that point, that fold in time, where a certain technical control of sickness hides rather than designates the movement that closes the experience of madness in on itself."
"Th question of the possibility of the transcendental reduction cannot expect an answer."
"The natural, original distemper of Man is presumption."
"It looks as though not only was a more positive form of knowledge now on the horizon, but also a more alert sensibility was coming to the fore, closer to the meaning of madness itself and more faithful to its contours."
"The correlation between Eros and Mnemosyne is replaced by that between a narcissistic ego without memory, a great amnesiac, and a death instinct desexualised and without love."
"Cadence is only the envelope of a rhythm, and of a relation between rhythms."
"At the end of the eighteenth and the beginning of the nineteenth centuries, neuroses, and essential fevers were fairly generally regarded as diseases without organic lesion."
"Thirdly, the Rat Man not only installs his neurosis in a social field determined from one end to the other as military"
"If the word silence among all words, is the most perverse or the most poetic, it is because in pretending to silence meaning, it says nonmeaning, it slides and it erases itself, does not maintain itself, silences itself, not as silence, but as speech."
"On the one hand, in the value of adequation."
"When we ascribed to them a perverse normal activity, we meant that these local groups were the agents of repression, the great coders."
"The transcendental form of a faculty is indistinguishable from its disjointed, superior or transcendent exercise."
"One continually asks oneself this question in reading Jean Rousset's fine book: Forme et signification:"
"For if exchange underlies everything, why is it that what takes place looks like anything but an exchange?"
"A first encounter, an encounter above all unique because it was a separation, like the separ ation of Sarah and Yukel."
"One of these poor unfortunates was sleeping on the straw without any cover.'"
"Yet it leads to conclusions that cause the whole of Oedipus to shatter, because it is not content to pose the problem in extension, thereby assuming its solution."
"Now this critique may be undertaken along On the one hand, he will continue, in effect, to contest the value of the two paths, in two manners."
"In Germany, special houses were built for them not to ensure their exclusion, but so that appropriate treatment could be given, and the Fuggers in Augsburg set up two such hospitals."
"This, however, is because the formula 'the cardinal results from the ordinal' has been poorly understood."
"It is only the represented, insofar as it is induced by repression."
"Here, on the contrary, time belongs to the inner law of the representations and is part of it; it follows and modifies without interruption the power possessed by wealth to represent itself and so analyse itself by means of a monetary system."
"The first thing we observe is that analysis of wealth obeys the same configuration as natural history and general grammar."
"With univocity, however, it is not the differences which are and must be: it is being which is Difference, in the sense that it is said of difference."
"And it was here that the conditions of the classical experience of madness changed definitively."
"Rather, by establishing that 'science' or universal mathesis immediately in eachdomain, they make the work a process of learning or experimentation, but also"
"If Freud needs death as a principle, this is by virtue of the requirements of the dualism that maintains a qualitative opposition between the drives (you will not escape the conflict): once the dualism of the ex al drives and the ego drives has only a topological scope, the qualitative or dynamic dualism passes between Eros and Thanatos."
"Apparently, this is no more than a 'picture' that helps us to learn and to remember the proliferatingdomain of the diseases."
"extremity wherein the soul and body ultimately perish (the autist)."
"Natural history is a science, that is, a language, but a securely based and well constructed one: its propositional unfolding is indisputably an articulation; the arrangement of its elements into a linear series patterns representation according to an evident and universal mode."
"But why return to dreams, why turn them into the royal road of desire and the unconscious, when they are in fact the manifestation of a superego, a superpowerful and superarchaized ego (the Urszene of the Urstaat)?"
"We may well say that learning is, after all, an infinite task: it is none the less cast with the circumstances and the acquisition of knowledge, outside the supposedly simple essence of knowledge in the form of an innate or a priori element, or even a regulative Idea."
", Freud shows that psychosis causes small multiplicities to intervene, as opposed to neurosis, which requires a global object: for example, the multiplicity of holes."
"Ramus divided his grammar into two parts."
"The question of Being draws back into this schema, this opposition of humanisms, in the direction of the thought of Being presupposed by the determination of the existentman, the existent God, and the analogical relationship between them; for the possibility of this relationship can be opened solely by the preconceptual and pre analogical unity of Being."
"because they re sick,as.bec.a se"
"With or without etymology, and despite the classic antagonism which opposes these significations throughout all of classical thought, it could be shown that the concept of episteme has always called forth that of historia, if history is always the unity of a becoming, as the tradition of truth or the development of science or knowledge oriented toward the appropriation of truth in presence and self presence, toward knowledge in consciousness of self."
"And representation itself was to be paralleled, limited, circumscribed, mocked perhaps,"
"True, the inverse procedure is not much better, consisting of the attempt to withdraw the pure sensible from representation and to determine it as that which remains once representation is removed (a contradictory flux, for example, or a rhapsody of sensations)."
"Despite these differences, both system and method rest upon the same epistemological base."
"How, starting from thisdomain of chance or of real inorganization, large configurations are organized that necessarily reproduce a structure under the action of and its segments, the genes, performing veritable lottery drawings, creating switching points as lines of selection or evolution"
"The regulations at the Lyon centre were typical: it was designed to receive vagabonds and beggars who had been sentenced to confinement by the local procurator, including 'loose women arrested for following troops', '"
"To say that the father is first in relation to the child really amounts to saying that the investment of desire is in the first instance the investment of a social field into which the father and the child are plunged, simultaneously immersed."
"becomes the death instinct, latency, but it also passes over into these flows that carry the seeds of a new life."
"It is a radical event that is distributed across the entire visible surface of knowledge, and whose signs, shocks, and effects it is possible to follow step by step."
"Pinel answered calmly: 'Citizen, I am convinced that these alienated are only so intractable because they are deprived of air and liberty.' '"
"He is the analogue of a great explorer not of another world, but of the upper or lower reaches of this one."
"Anatomic genet ale, vol."
"Beneath solidarity, beneath companionship, before Mitsein, which would be only a derivative and modified form of the originary relation with the other, Levinas already aims for the face to face, the encounter with the face."
"This is due to the fact that the body without organs is in no way the contrary of the organs partial objects."
"The role of a politico military economic complex is the more manifest in that it guarantees the extraction of human surplus value on the periphery and in the appropriated zones of the center, but also because it engenders for its own part an enormous machinic surplus value by mobilizing the resources of knowledge and information capital, and finally because it absorbs the greater part of the surplus value produced."
"Another concept of life had been surreptitiously put in its place, to remain there, never to be exceeded, any more than reason is ever exceeded (for, says L'erotisme, by definition, the excess is outside reason."
"Furthermore, it is in relation to the form of identity in the generic concept that difference goes as far as opposition, that it is pushed as far as contrariety."
"The leprosarium in Nancy, which had been one of the largest in Europe, had only four inmates during the regency of Marie de dicis."
"It is not a reserve of meaning."
"Here, too, we follow the path to the bend at which 'reason' plunges into the beyond."
"That is why our terminology concerning the two poles has necessarily varied."
"Nothing had happened."
"Then there occurs a crushing of the magic triangle: the voice no longer sings but dictates, decrees; the graphy no longer dances, it ceases to animate bodies, but is set into writing on tablets, stones, and books; the eye sets itself to reading."
"The question of the father, the question of ?"
"Man is quite ill in Aeschylus, but still thinks of himself somewhat as a god and does not want to enter the membrane, and in Euripides, finally, he splashes about in the membrane, forgetting where and when he was a god (ibid."
"With manpower, one could double the land that one possessed; land could be acquired, and fallow land put to good use."
"Hasten then, you citizens who cherish humanity, and turn this beautiful dream into reality you can be sure in advance that you will be congratulated for it."
"Second year students would study first anatomy, physiology, chemistry, pharmacy, and surgery, then materia rnedica, internal and external pathology; during this second year, students might be employed in the hospitals 'in the service of the sick'."
"Let us borrow the term celibate machine to designate this machine that succeeds the paranoiac machine and the miraculating machine, forming a new alliance between the desiring machines and the body without organs so as to give birth to a new humanity or a glorious organism."
"Placing oneself in a l; I position where one is thus traversed, broken, fucked by the socius, looking for the right place where, according to the aims and the interests assigned to us, one feels something moving that has neither an interest nor a purpose."
"For example, an Idea or multiplicity such as that of colour is constituted by the virtual coexistence of relations between genetic or differential elements of a particular order."
"The element of sense is well known to philosophy; it has even become very familiar to philosophers."
"At the level of each binding, an ego is formed in the Id; a passive, partial, larval, contemplative and contracting ego."
"While for his part, the ethnologist senses that there is a problem of political power and economic and religious force inseparable from the fetish, even when its use is individual and private."
"In the seventeenth century, these three properties are still attributed to money, but they are all three made to rest, not on the first (possession of price), but on the last (substitution for that which possesses price)."
"Pinel was not surprised that 'looking down the list of alienated patients at Bic tre"
"And difficult not to be struck by the system of complex oppositions that underlies them."
"But this communication of unconsciouses does not by any means take the family as its principle; it takes as its principle the commonalty of the social field insofar as it is the object of the investment of desire."
"The minor play consisting in still attributing a meaning, within discourse, to the absence of meaning."
"Perhaps the mistake of the philosophy of difference, from Aristotle to Hegel via Leibniz, lay in confusing the concept of difference with a merely conceptual difference, in remaining content to inscribe difference in the concept in general."
"Must we be content with an uncertain parallelism where each contemplates the other with perplexity, placing in opposition two irreducible sectors of symbolism?"
"Regarding madness, by contrast, Descartes mentions those mechanisms from the very first steps in the test of doubt ('a brain so troubled and shrouded in the black vapours of the bile'):"
"His task was to accomplish the obscure and sovereign gesture that designates an individual as an undesirable element, a stranger to the unity that society forms; and it fell to the common citizen to judge the boundaries of order and disorder, liberty and scandal, morality and immorality."
"the Markov chains and their applications to the living species as weJl as to cultural formations, see Ruyer, La genese des formes vivantes, Ch."
"So that the true activities of the unconscious, causing to flow and breaking flows, consist of the passive synthesis itself insofar as it ensures the relative coexistence and displacement of the two different functions."
"Let us retain the allusion to a permanent code: it is the weakness of a method to which Freud attributes, nevertheless, the merit of being analytic and of spelling out the elements of meaning one by one."
"A negativity that never takes place, that never presents itself, because in doing so it would start to work again."
"The act of a reasonable man who, rightly or wrongly, judges an image to be true or false, goes beyond the image, and measures it against that which it is not."
"In this sense the despotic State is indeed the origin, but the origin as an abstraction that must include its differences with respect to the concrete beginning."
"Must we not recognise here a kind of fracture introduced into thought, one which will not cease to widen in another atmosphere (non Aristotelian)?"
"Madness was denied the imaginary liberty that still allowed it to flourish at the time of the Renaissance."
"Thi bault, Grammaire philosophique,. ."
"In the polemic between La Mesnardi re and Duncan, the former suggests that as the brain is a damp, cold organ filled with liquids and fluids, it is inconceivable that it might become inflamed. '"
"The whole curiosity of our thought now resides in the question:"
"Jacques Derrida is correct in saying that every language presupposes."
"The two corresponding themes are in the female, an envy for the penis a positive striving to possess a male genital and, in the male, a struggle against his passive or feminine attitude to another male."
"It is true that this most pitiful faculty also becomes the royal faculty when it animates philosophy as a philosophy of mind in other words, when it leads all the other faculties to that transcendent exercise which renders possible a violent reconciliation between the individual, the ground and thought."
"In the work of Hugues de Saint Victor, the genealogical tree of vices, that of old Adam, had pride as its root, but now it was Madness that led the joyful choir of human weaknesses."
"The aim therefore was no longer to glorify poverty in the act of relieving it, but quite simply to dispose of it altogether."
"This is why, as we shall see, grammar presupposes languages, even the most primitive and spontaneous ones, to be rhetorical in nature."
"In comparison with the mad of the Narrt rme and the first asylums in Spain, the madman of the classical age, locked up with venereal sufferers, the debauched, libertines and homosexuals, lost the marks of his individuality, and faded into a general apprehension of unreason."
"But if the analysis again discovers the link between two."
"(But did not the Platonic sun already enlighten the visible sun, and did not excendence play upon the meta phor of these two suns?"
"The metaphor of the city and the body, so assiduously put to work in our Western culture, derived its imaginary powers only from the much deeper foundation of archaeological necessities."
"This kind of question could appear exterior to a method that presents itself precisely as structurali that is,."
"Repetition is everywhere, as much in what is actualised as in its actualisation."
"What is impossible, however, is the contradictory: resemblance is always exterior and difference, whether small or large, forms the kernel of the system."
"For under these conditions is there no solution but to revive the notion of a terrain, whether in the form of a phylogenetic innateness of preformation, or a cultural symbolic a priori linked to prematuration?"
"I am the son, and also my mother's brother and my sister's husband and my own father."
"This is why the question of Being cannot budge the metaphysical edifice of Totality and Infinity (for example)."
"These questions have been analyzed in depth by Jean Oury."
"Conversely, problems are Ideas."
"Discussions about criminal forms of madness, the prestige of general paralysis, the great theme of degeneracy and the criticism of hysterical phenomena, the themes that drove medical research from Esquirol to Freud, all reflected these twin concerns."
"If it is true, however, that it is problems which are dialectical in principle, and their solutions which are scientific, we must distinguish completely between the following: the problem as transcendental instance; the symbolic field in which the immanent movement of the problem expresses its conditions; the field of scientific solvability in which the problem is incarnated, and in terms of which the preceding symbolism is defined."
"If the antithetical coupling of fear and anger was effective against manic irritation, it could also be used in the opposite manner against the ill grounded fears of melancholics, hypochondriacs and anyone of a lymphatic temperament."
": it is the representative of desire."
"Or rather, if it is true that the analysis doesn't even begin as Oedipal, except to our way of seeing, doesn't it become Oedipal nevertheless, in a certain way and in what way?"
"This second repetition should be seen as the 'reason' of the first."
"And inversely, is it not the case"
"What followed was the religious system of control and repression which, by inscribing the temporal suffering in the order of penance that was always reversible into eternal terms, can and should exempt the sinner from the pains of hell."
"After four examinations (anatomy and physiology; pathology and nosography; materia medica; hygiene and forensic medicine), doctors would take a test in clinical medicine, internal or external, according to whether they wished to become physicians or surgeons."
"something in common, the great Phallus, the Lack with two nonsuperirnposable sides, is purely mythical; it is like the One in negative theology, it introduces lack into desire and causes exclusive series to emanate, to which it attributes a goal, an origin, and a path of resignation."
"They are bottomless, in the double sense that they only stand out against the most monotonous of nights, and that nothing can assign them their origin, their term and their nature."
"The medical body is to be distinguished from political bodies in that it does not seek to limit the liberty of others or to impose laws and obligations upon the citizens; its imperative applies only to itself; its `jurisdiction is concentrated within itself';' but it is also to be distinguished from other professional bodies because it is intended not to preserve rights and obscure traditions but to confront and to communicate knowledge: without an established organ, enlightenment would be extinguished at birth and individual experience lost for all."
"It is tenacious too, and parasitic, loving and breathing through a thousand mouths that leave a thousand imprints on our skin, a rejected and called for book, the book ceaselessly begun and taken up again on a marine monster, a polyp."
"Or rather, the multiplication of things under an absolutely identical concept has as its consequence the division of the concept into absolutely identical things."
"To the 'philosophical way' that is 'the knowledge of principles and causes', which is 'still highly curious, and vital in helping to make the distinction between the dogmatic and the empirical', what is now to be preferred is the 'historical way', which is more sure and more necessary; it is 'simple and easy to acquire', and at bottom is nothing other than 'a knowledge of the facts'."
"This messianic triumph, which is the horizon of Levinas's book, but which overflows its framework, could abolish violence only by suspending the difference (conjunction or opposition) between the same and the other, that is, by suspending the idea of peace."
"Here excellence, is forced to designate a movement which properly constitutes is the note: It is useless to insist upon the Hegelian character of this the excess of every possible philosopheme."
"Prost, La medecine des corps"
"It would be of the house and of the book."
"The word consommation has a number of meanings in French,"
"At the level of the history of opinions, all this would appear, no doubt, as a tangled network of in<U+FB02>uences in which the individual parts played by Hobbes, Berkeley, Leibniz, Condillac, and the 'Id ologues' would be revealed."
"Silence is broken because I have spoken."
"Being weighed down with these new ideas, and dragging them in its wake, gives an additional strength to the idea, which soon means that it can resist the strongest efforts of the will to fight against it."
"Oedipus is the figure of power as such, just as neurosis is the result of power on individuals."
"Therefore war for war there isis the difference between the face and the finite world without a face."
"Moreover, the system can recognize only relations of coordination between animal or vegetable structures."
"Madness, which finds its first possibility in the fact of passion and in the unfolding of that double process of causality which, originating in passion itself, spreads towards the body and towards the soul, is at the same time a suspension of passion, a rupture of causality, the liberation of the elements of that unity."
"God does not take hold of any one of our innate attributes, but of our innateness itself, of the innateness proper to our being itself: There are some fools who think of themselves as beings, as innately being."
"A for possession (avoir, to have), for existence, I for puissance (power), for tonnement (astonishment, eyes opened wide), for humidit (humidity) and therefore for humeur (mood)."
"But comparing myself to them, doing as they do, implies that I too will become like them, demented, incapable and disqualified from my meditative enterprise: I would be no less demens if I followed their example."
"Zimmermann, Traite de ('experience ("
"A magic identification, of course."
"In the seventeenth century they spoke of the choice and arrangement of words, the structure and harmony of the composition, the modest grandeur of the thoughts."
"Demangeon, Tableau historique d'un triple etablissement reuni en un seul hospice Copenhague (Paris, Year Vll)."
"To consume pure difference with pleasure."
"The same thing is both disguising and disguised."
"Travel was effective not on account of its interruptions of continuity, but because of the novelty of the objects that it proposed and the curiosity that it engendered."
"In this sense, we can establish a distinction between the positive and the affirmative in other words, between the positivity of Ideas understood as differential positings and the affirmations to which they give rise, which incarnate and solve them."
"And in these places where the evil of idleness was condemned, the inventions of a society that read an ethical transcendence into the law of work, madness too one day appeared, eventually making this space its own."
"Do a new elan and some strange community begin to take shape, without being the spiraling return of Alexandrian promiscuity?"
"Death is not desired, but what is desired is dead, already dead: images."
"And, further on, we will see what the consequences of this can be for the tasks of criticism."
"Cahn, La Vie et l' uvre"
"Significant perception is therefore structurally different in the world of the clinical as it existed in its first form, and as modified by the anatomical method."
"It needs to be investigated as a shortened paradigm of history."
"The central concepts of this section were those of presence and of archi trace."
"Absolute comicalness is the anguish experienced fice of meaning: a sacrifice without return and without reserves."
"A petition addressed on Brumaire Year to the Convention and drawn up by a certain Caron, of the I'oissonniere section, was still denouncing doctors trained by the Faculty as vulgar `charlatans' against whom the people wished to be defended.'"
"However, this no longer applies from the point of view of the chaos which contains them, the object which runs through them, the precursor which establishes communication between them or the forced movement which points beyond them: the differenciator always makes them coexist."
"The characteristics that allow us to classify all of them in this one category though their importance varies according to the example considered are as follows: the celibate machine"
"The complementarity between the narcissistic libido and the death instinct defines the third synthesis as much as Eros and Mnemosyne defined the second."
"The same is said of that which differs and remains different."
"But in this fashion the entire historicopolitical theme gets interpreted as a constellation of imaginary identifications depending on Oedipus, or on that which the subject lacks in order to become oedipalized."
"It is situated, surrounded, invested (in all senses of the word),' constituted."
"They were taken in at the tel Dieu in Paris, and despite several attempts to expel them, they soon blended in with the other sick."
"One exception worthy of note is a thesis put forward by Fem, where frenzy is due to difficulties brought on by overburdened viscera, which 'communicate their disorder to the brain through the nerves'."
"Landre Beauvais, Semeiotique (Paris,. ."
"One of the registers at Bic tre speaks of a former schoolmaster 'who had married a woman of ill repute, and had fallen into such misery that his mind had become entirely deranged'."
"Everything is made to begin with Oedipus, by means of explanation, with all the more certainty as one has reduced everything to Oedipus by means of application."
"England, on the other hand, though it attracted bullion too, did so always for the profit of labour and not merely to provide its inhabitants with luxury, that is, in order to increase the number of its workers and the quantity of its products before any increase in prices occurred."
"Despite these differences, it is always a question of manifesting the Negative (and always in a concrete form, that is, at the heart of the Totality whose constitutive elements are inseparable)."
"Plan general de I'enseignement dans I'Ecole de Sante de Paris"
"It is on the body without organs, as a pivot, as a frontier between the molar and the molecular, that the paranoia schizophrenia division is made."
"The walls of these houses of confinement contained something like a photographic negative of the city of morals that was beginning to haunt the bourgeois consciousness of the seventeenth century; a city for those who had tried to escape from the outset, where the rule of law was kept by force and no appeal was possible, where good was sovereign and threat triumphed, where virtue's only recompense was that it was spared further punishment, so much was it believed to be its own reward."
"But if, on the other hand, after a reasonable amount of time, no sign of madness is found, and painstaking investigations reveal nothing to arouse the suspicion that the calm is merely a lucid interval, and if the patient requests that he be allowed to leave the hospital, then it would be a crime to retain him there by force."
"But in this case, Levinas would no doubt say, there no longer would be any war, for there would be neither face nor true asymmetry."
"se comparer to certain insane people; but, the naive person apparently continues, I am not mad, therefore there are things that I could not doubt."
"It should unite in one and the same operation what everyday language keeps separate: not only must it designate all natural entities very precisely, but it must also situate them within the system of identities and differences that unites them to and distinguishes them from all the others."
"The disjunctions are subjected to the alternative of the undifferentiated or exclusion."
"To let one's speech be spirited away souffle is, like writing itself, the urphenomenon of the reserve: the abandoning of the self to the furtive, to discretion and separation, is, at the same time, accumulation, capital ization, the security of the delegated or deferred decision."
"It is a question of knowing how a revolutionary potential is realized, in its very relationship with the exploited masses or the weakest links of a given system."
"(It can happen that one lone man functions as a flow schiz as a subject group, through a break with the subjugated group from which he excludes himself or is excluded: Artaud the schizo), And where do we situate the psychoanalytic group within this complexity of social investments?"
"This is the meaning of the disjunctions where Beckett records his characters and the events that befall them: everything divides, but into itself."
"The poor were the seat and the glory of nations."
"I must add that the nation ardently desires to diminish the influence of the administrator's part, or at least modify it, so that the freedom of citizens should be assured in the most inviolable manner."
"A little more than a year later, the trace starts to become writing."
"Hence, too, the fact that such an arrangement has disappeared so completely that later ages have lost even the memory of its existence; this is because after the Kantian critique, and all that occurred in Western culture at the end of the eighteenth century, a new type of division was established: on the one hand mathesis was regrouped so as to constitute an apophantics and an ontology, and it is in this form that it hasdominated the formal disciplines right up to our day; on the other hand, history and semiology (the latter absorbed, moreover, by the former) united to form those interpretative disciplines whose power has extended from Schleiermacher to Nietzsche and Freud."
"A proposition readily converted into atheism: and if God was an effect of the trace?"
"Formally that is by posing it in the most effective and most formal, the most formalized, way possible: not in a logic, in other words in a philosophy, but in an inscribed description, in an inscription of the relations between the philosophical and the nonphilosophical, in a kind of unheard of graphics, within which philosophical conceptuality would be no more than a function."
"Reb Jacob, who was my first master, believed in the virtue of the lie, because, he said, there is no writing without a lie and writing is the way of God."
"But this lack of efficacy which is quite strange when one considers the work that went into it is really the reverse of a problem."
"Moreover, despite the abundance of identity cards, files, and other means of control, capitalism does not even need to write in books to make up for the vanished body markings."
"Rousseau had already demonstrated how nature had ended, and how the human milieu had taken its place, with the cosmic catastrophe that was the collapse of the continents."
"But at the same time as this restandardization was being demanded, and occasionally accomplished, a certain number of phenomena came to light which are peculiar to the money sign and perhaps definitively compromised its role as a measure."
"Now, the infinite( ly other) cannot be an object because it is speech, the origin of meaning and the world."
"So that all words, of whatever kind, are dormant names: verbs have joined adjectival names to the verb to be; conjunctions and prepositions are the names of gestures now frozen into immobility;"
"For on the other hand, the object of the Idea becomes indirectly determined: it is determined by analogy with those objects of experience upon which it confers unity, but which in return offer it a determination 'analogous' to the relations it entertains with them."
"This is a question also posed by Hegel, admiring the word Sinn.)"
"In the same way, though the analogy is inverted, language sets itself the task of restoring an absolutely primal discourse, but it can express that discourse only by trying to approximate to it, by attempting to say things about it that are similar to it, thereby bringing into existence the infinity of adjacent and similar fidelities of interpretation."
"Sauvages classes hypochondria among hallucinations, the 'hallucinations that only affect the health', and hysteria among forms of convulsion."
"It was not only out of political opportunism, but no doubt also out of an obscure fidelity to coherences that no twisting in events could deflect, that in Year the same Fourcroy opposed any project aimed at restoring 'the Gothic universities and aristocratic academies''"
"The perceived quality presupposes intensity, because it expresses only a resemblance to a 'band of isolatable intensities', within the limits of which a permanent object is constituted the qualified object which affirms its identity across variable distances."
"The desert of Bosch's Saint Anthony was infinitely peopled; and even if it was the work of her imagination, the landscape through which Dulle Griet ran was still criss crossed by human language."
"Is this opposition the sign that from the nineteenth century the field of knowledge can no longer provide the ground for a re<U+FB02>ection that will be homogeneous and uniform at all points?"
"It Structures are: Above all, it is beginning to emerge that this could perhaps be said that the whole of philosophical conceptualization, distinction which is systematic with the nature/culture opposition, is designed to between nature and society ('nature' and 'culture' seem preferable to leave in thedomain of the unthinkable the very thing that makes this us today), while of no acceptable historical significance,"
"No proportion is proportionate to it."
"My place is on the threshhold ("
"Plato tells us in the Cratylus a), the Sophist ad) and in Letter b), that there is no Logos which does not suppose the interlacing of nouns and verbs."
"There is little in common between the organised parading of madness in the eighteenth century and the freedom with which madness came to the fore during the Renaissance."
"For the systematician, continuity consists only of the unbroken juxtaposition of the different regions that can be clearly distinguished by means of characters; all that is required is an uninterrupted gradation of the values that the structure selected as a character can assume in the species as a whole; starting from this principle, it will become apparent that all these values are occupied by real beings, even though they may not yet be known. '"
"by their combinations form organs.''"
"For within the most universal eidos of mental historicity, the conversion of philosophy into phenomenology would be the final degree of differentiation (stage,"
"A topological knot where everything is connected without confusion, where everything flows together and is distributed."
"Of course we are told not to confuse the signified with the signifier."
"May Everything that we experience today in the mode of the limit, or of strangeness, or of the unbearable."
"Granted, incest is a lure, it is impossible."
"La Rochefoucauld Liancourt bore witness to this in his report to the Committee on Begging: 'One of the punishments inflicted on epileptics,"
"Speaking, enlightening, and knowing are, in the strict sense of the term, of the same order."
"In this regard, the first thesis of schizoanalysis is this: every investment is social, and in any case bears upon a sociohistorical field."
"Earlier, Paracelsus had drawn up an influential classification."
"Until the time of Aldrovandi, History was the inextricable and completely unitary fabric of all that was visible of things and of the signs that had been discovered or lodged in them: to write the history of a plant or an animal was as much a matter of describing its elements or organs as of describing the resemblances that could be found in it, the virtues that it was thought to possess, the legends and stories with which it had been involved, its place in heraldry, the medicaments that were concocted from its substance, the foods it provided, what the ancients recorded of it, and what travellers might have said of it."
"The theme of quantitative equality or equalisation doubles"
"The periods of installation and organisation of internment should also be taken into account: during the early days of confinement, which stretched more or less from to growth was extremely rapid, outstripping the rate of growth of the general population."
"The cosmic, tragic experience of madness was hidden by the exclusive privileges of a critical consciousness."
"Reciprocal determination here still has too much of the aspect of a spatio temporal relation."
"I full body, and that their respective poles necessarily relate to the character or the map of this socius earth, despot, or capital money (for each social machine the two poles, paranoiac and schizophrenic, are distributed in varying ways)."
"For the function of that re<U+FB02>ection is to draw into the interior of the picture what is intimately foreign to it: the gaze which has organized it and the gaze for which it is displayed."
"Madness is the purest and most complete form of quid pro quo: it takes the false for the true, death for life, man for woman, a lover for the Furies, and the victim for Minos."
"It is inevitable but inaccessible death; it is the abyss of the present, time without a present, with which I have no relationships; it is that toward which I cannot go forth, for in it do not die, I have fallen from the power to die."
"Is this not the most general characteristic of the ground namely, that the circle which it organises is also the vicious circle of philosophical 'proof, in which representation must prove what proves it, just as for Kant the possibility of experience serves as the proof of its own proof?"
"Those aspects of evil that still lurked within it were exorcised, and its truth could now be displayed on the surface, in the order of positive signs."
"Which would have seemed absolutely mad to Hegel (and to all the metaphysics expanded and rethought in him)"
"To think is to create there is no other creation but to create is first of all to engender 'thinking' in thought."
"sticking a woman on a pedestal, or the reverse, sticking her beneath notice; or making a 'model' housewife of her, or a 'model' mother, or a 'model' help meet."
"However, it remains literally true that intensity creates the qualities and extensities in which it explicates itself, because these qualities and extensities do not in any way resemble the ideal relations which are actualised within them: differenciation implies the creation of the lines along which it operates."
"It is still inferred, however, from a simple calculus of propositions, copied or traced from the propositions themselves.)"
"Later, Romanticism was to believe that it had broken with the previous age because it had learned to name things by their name."
"Confinement permitted and even fostered this resistance of the imaginary."
"I shall remain upon psychological ground, and I propose simply to follow the suggestion that we should picture the instrument which carries out our mental functions as resembling a compound microscope, or a photographic apparatus, or something of the kind."
"All that was alienated in man was given a voice, and for the first time these stammerings were lent an ear."
"But the machine remains desire, an investment of desire whose history unfolds, by way of the primary repression and the return of the repressed, in the succession of the states of paranoiac machines, miraculating machines, and celibate machines through which little Joey passes as Bettelheim's therapy progresses."
"This is the threefold limit of the final power."
"Mannoni (reference note, pp."
"I production, representation must inflate itself with all the power of myth and tragedy, it must give a mythic and tragic presentation of the family and a familial presentation of myth and tragedy."
"In what sense are the lines of escape collective, positive, and creative?"
"Is it schizophrenia as a process that makes us sick, or is it the self perpetuation of the process in the void a horrible exasperation (the production of the schizophrenicas entity)?"
"See Elisabeth Roudinesco's excellent article on Lacan, where she analyzes the twofold aspect of the analytic signifying chain and the transcendent signifier on which the chain depends."
"But when these empirical contents were detached from representation and contained the principle of their existence within themselves, then the metaphysics of infinity became useless; from that point on, finitude never ceased to refer back to itself (from the positivity of the contents to the limitations of knowledge, and from the limited positivity of knowledge to the limited knowledge of the contents)."
"What prevents these richer determinations from being developed on their own account, however, is the maintenance, despite everything, of the dogmatic image, along with the postulates of common sense, recognition and representation which comprise its cortege."
"Evil no longer stalked through its pages in fantastical guises; all it displayed was the extreme form, the truth without content of the beast."
"It may involve a mechanism, but it cannot belong to the order of Mechanics as such. '"
"That quantity becomes psyche and mneme through differences rather than through plenitudes will be continuously confirmed in the Project itself."
"Excavation within the other toward the other in which the same seeks its vein and the true gold of its phenomenon."
"At the moment when it was sufficiently freed to become an object of perception, unreason found itself caught up in a whole system of concrete servitude."
"The first is a man of the law; the latter is a man of the government.'"
"For Cabanis, as for the eighteenth century and for a whole tradition that was already familiar in the Renaissance, the knowledge of life was based on the essence of the living, since it, too, is no more than a manifestation of it."
"Species and parts do not resemble the intensities which determine them."
"By unveiling the unconscious as their most fundamental object, the human sciences showed that there was always something still to be thought in what had already been thought on a manifest level; by revealing the law of time as the external boundary of the human sciences."
"In this imaginary adhesion to the self, madness is born like a mirage."
"The idea of a form of madness localised in one point and only developing its delirium around a single subject was already present in the classical analysis of melancholy, and for medicine was a specific form of delirium rather than a contradiction."
"Institutional analysis is the ore politic.al tendency of institutional psychotherapy, begun in the late as an attempt to c?l ectlveJy"
"The fact that the essence of madness can ultimately be defined in the simple structure of a discourse does not bring it back to a purely psychological nature, but instead gives it a grip on the totality of the body and soul."
"In truth, capitalism has nothing to co opt; or rather, its powers of co option coexist more often than not with what is to be co opted, and even anticipate it."
"a vain, loud mouthed charlatan."
"True, such relations were perfectly well known in the Classical age; but they were used only to determine functions; they were not used to establish the order of things within the space of nature."
"no doubt the I and the Self must be replaced by an undifferenciated abyss, but this abyss is neither an impersonal nor an abstract Universal beyond individuation."
"In sum, is it impossible, would be but only impossible"
"The return to the book is then the abandoning of the book; it has slipped in between God and God, the Book and the Book, in the neutral space of succession, in the suspense of the interval."
"However, it is also a confusion (as Kant showed) to the extent that the determination 'I think' purports to bear immediately on the indeterminate existence '"
"The fact was that hospitals for the mad did not exist yet."
"A religion of the work as form."
"In one case, the organism produces a tissue that exists regularly"
"We must, in fact, distinguish between three things."
"At the beginning of the essay entitled Polyeucte, or the Ring and the Helix, the author prudently warns us that if he insists upon schemas that might appear excessively geometrical, it is because Corneille, more than any other, practiced symmetry."
"The eternal return concerns only simulacra, it causes only such phantasms to return."
"Morality could be administered like commerce or economics."
"Strange Anglo American litera ture:"
"We have already defined elsewhere the fundamental property of writing, in a difficult sense of the word, as spacing: diastem and time becoming space; an unfolding as well, on an original site, of meanings which irreversible, linear consecution, moving from present point to present point, could only tend to repress, and (to a certain extent) could only fail to repress."
"At this point, confinement was a uniform fact."
"It is the only class as such, inasmuch as it leads the struggle against codes, and merges with the generalized decoding of flows."
"which is itself a matter of relaxation and contraction."
"It has to do with the nature of nomadic space, where the full body of the socius is as if adjacent to production; it has not yet brought production under its sway."
"Poetry can escape Western illness only by becoming theater."
"In particular, that with which phenomenology was to oppose it so tenaciously was already present in its underlying structures: the original powers of the perceived and its correlation with language in the original forms of experience, the organization of objectivity on the basis of sign values, the secretly linguistic structure of the datum, the constitutive character of corporal spatiality, the importance of' finitude in the relation of man with truth, and in the foundation of' this relation, all this was involved in the genesis of positivism."
"And it is this mode of perception that needs to be addressed for any understanding of the sensibility to madness of the period we often term the age of Reason."
"The idea of this evil rot contagion was thus accomplished in images."
"These centres are clearly constituted neither by the I nor by the Self, but by a completely different structure belonging to the I Self system."
"At first, Cuvier thought that the functions of existence preceded those of relationships ('for the animal is first, then it feels and acts'): he supposed, therefore, that reproduction and circulation must in the first place determine a certain number of organs to whose arrangement others would find themselves subject; the former organs would form the primary characters, and the latter the secondary ones."
"Marx often alluded to the Golden Age of the capitalist, when the latter didn't hide his own cynicism: in the beginning, at least, he could not be unaware of what he was doing, extorting surplus value."
"Assistance becomes the foremost social duty, regardless of its recipient, as that is the basis on which societies are held together, the living bond between men, the link that is most personal and yet the most universal as well."
"What does schizoanalysis ask?"
"The hard law of explication is that what is explicated is explicated once and for all."
"And it won't make one bit of difference."
"Such a one is the Untimely, neither temporal nor eternal."
"Because of its timidity in reform and because of its fidelity to the principles of Year"
"The one involves the qualitative synthesis of diversity, the static synthesis of qualitative diversity related to an object supposed the same for all the faculties of a single subject; the other involves the quantitative synthesis of difference, the dynamic synthesis of difference in quantity related to a system in which it is objectively and subjectively cancelled."
"An allosteric protein should be seen as a specialized product of molecular engineering, enabling an interaction, positive or negative, to come about between compounds without chemical affinity, and thereby eventually subordinating any reaction to the intervention of compounds that are chemically foreign and indifferent to this reaction."
"Already in the First Manifesto: only behave as an element among others, sometimes like a thing which the primary process manipulates according to its own economy."
"Consequently, how could it not be believed that the theme or sense is only an ineffectual double, traced from the type of proposition that it subsumes or even from an element supposed to be common to all propositions (the indicative thesis)?"
"An economy irreducible to what Levinas envisions in the word."
"For, they affirm, a schizophrenic out for a walk is a better model than a neurotic lying on the analyst's couch."
"Mason Cox quotes one of his own observations, the case of a man struck with a melancholy stupor:"
"Such an agent exists: the family."
"The disappearance of the two great a priori classes of nosology opened up fin medicine an entirely spatial field of investigation, determined throughout by these local values."
"But since Raymond Roussel, since Artaud, it is also the place where language approaches literature most closely."
"This isn't the onlv time we encounter the duality of money, as a structure of external fina'ncing and a's a means of internal payment, along with the objective dissimulation that it comprises, essential to the capitalist system."
"Most of the time they were kept in prisons, as was the case in the Fort du"
"Each is a measure of the other, and in this movement of reciprocal reference, each rejects the other but is logically dependent upon it."
"La Borde Clime, established by Jean Oury of the Ecole Freudienne de Paris, served as the locus for discussions on institutional psychotherapy, and Jacques Lacan's seminars served as the intellectual basis for these discussions in the beginning."
"Let us be clear about this: an experience devoid of both age and memory knew, well before the advent of pathological anatomy, the way that led from health to disease, and from disease to death."
"Nor is it our intention to revive the question of an individual psychology and a collective psychology, and of the priority of the one or the other; this distinction, as it appears in Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego, remains completely stymied by Oedipus."
"Paradoxically, having no unmistakeable signs nor positive presence, it presented itself with a sort of calm immediacy, on the surface of the world, with no possible distance for doubt."
"All of which was of the utmost importance for subsequent developments in the medicine of the mind."
"Madness only affects in a contingent and partial manner certain regions of sensible perception'."
"The strange concept of 'psychological alienation', which is thought to have its roots in psychopathology, however enriched with ambiguities from otherdomains of reflexion, is little more than the anthropological confusion of these two different experiences of alienation, the first of which concerns those who have fallen under the power of the Other, and are chained to his liberty; while the second is the individual turned Other, excluded from the fraternal resemblance between men."
"depends solely and above all upon the nature of the third time"
"Such is also the case for the social field: its coding or its axiomatic first determine within it a communication of unconsciouses."
"In their most general form, both knowing and speaking consist first of all in the simultaneous analysis of representation, in the discrimination of its elements, in the establishing of the relations that combine those elements, and the possible sequences according to which they can be unfolded."
"Cicero evokes the paradox of the sicknesses of the soul and their cure: when the body is ill, the soul can recognise it, know it and form judgements about it, but when the soul is sick the body can do nothing for it, and can tell us nothing about it: 'the soul is called upon to make judgements on its own state, when it is precisely the faculty of judgement that is unwell'."
"This explains why Corvisart was able, without any major theoretical problem, to reactivate Auenbrugger's relatively old and completely forgotten discovery."
"The second reason, which I will adduce briefly before going on to Descartes, has to do with the profound link established by Foucault between the division, the dissension, and the possibility of history itself."
"Thermodynamics was the powerful furnace of that alloy."
"And yet, to the end of his life, Broussais was the object of passionate attack; and after his death, his reputation continued to decline."
"Is a medical experience, diluted in the free space of a society reduced to the single, nodal, and necessary figure of the family, not bound up with the very structure of society?"
"To all appearances, it was simply reviving, as the only possible way of salvation, the clinical tradition that had been developed in the eighteenth century."
"Of course, but only as the master of the disjunctive syllogism, or as its a priori principle (God defined as the Omnitudo realitatis, from which all secondary realities are derived by a process of division)."
"Encyclop die, article 'Monnaie'."
"This optimum proportion is not the same whether we consider a country in isolation or the movement of its foreign trade."
"Through you, I ascend to the origin of the sign, to the unformulated writing sketched by the wind on the sand and on the sea, the untamed writing of the bird and the mischievous fish."
"Everything must be interpreted in intensity."
"Kant's answer is well known: the form under which undetermined existence is determinable by the"
"If identification is a nomination, a designation, then simulation is the writing corresponding to it, a writing that is strangely polyvocal, flush with the real."
"In order to take the resolution to doubt everything, should I disqualify myself as reasonable?"
"The highest figure had been attained in saw people admitted for insanity, while there were in in with the years that followed seeing and We are faced therefore with a relatively slow increase in the numbers of the mad or at least in internees who were recognised and labelled as such throughout the eighteenth century, with a maximum being attained in the years and then a swift collapse as soon as the Revolution broke out."
"To our clouded eyes, this network became confused only when the medical gaze changed structure."
"everybody's like that, but one continues to Clllh thcxaruc Iill;ing and degrading conception of sexuality, the sallie ligmalive l'tion as the censors'."
"The president of the courts replied that his detention was a favour, and that in any case his sentence was ad omnia citra mortem for the rest of his days.'"
"I have not tried to write the history of that language"
"For now we no longer have that primary, that absolutely initial, word upon which the infinite movement of discourse was founded and by which it was limited; henceforth, language was to grow with no point of departure, no end, and no promise."
"Alienation only consecrates, with didactic insistence and systematic heaviness, the nonparticipation of spectators (and even of directors and actors) in the creative act, in the irruptive force fissuring the space of the stage."
"Moreover, if the specification of the points already shows the necessary immanence of the problem in the solution, its involvement in the solution which covers it, along with the existence and the distribution of points, testifies to the transcendence of the problem and its directive role in relation to the organisation of the solutions themselves."
"It is these three syntheses which must be understood as constitutive of the unconscious."
"Among all Foucault's claims to my gratitude, there is thus also that of having made me better anticipate, more so by his monumental book than by the naive reading of the Meditations, to what degree the philosophical act can no longer no longer be in memory of Cartesianism, if to be Cartesian, as Descartes himself doubtless understood it, is to attempt to be Cartesian."
"However, the inability of empirical consciousness here corresponds to the 'nth' power of the language and its transcendent repetition to be able to speak infinitely of or about words themselves."
"Numerous houses were set up in the countryside on this model, which was inspired by the Carlford workhouse."
"The paradox of 'positive' psychology in the nineteenth century was to have only been possible from the moment of negativity: the psychology of the personality through an analysis of its splitting, the psychology of memory by amnesia, of language by aphasia, of intelligence by mental deficiency."
"At around the same time similar institutions of this new type began to open all around Europe, like the Casa di maniachi in Padova (around, and the Bergamo asylum."
"Despite this weakness, the interrogative formula has at least one advantage: at the same time as it invites us to consider the corresponding proposition as a response, it opens up a new path for us."
"It is variety which denounces simultaneously order and disorder, and (non) being or being which denounces simultaneously both being and non being."
"Does not one thus run the risk of identifying the work with original writing in general?"
"Like Rousseau, he must always conceive of the origin of a new structure on the model of catastrophe an overturning of nature in nature, a natural interruption of the natural sequence, a setting aside of nature."
"Hence there is a machinic surplus value produced by constant capital, which develops along with automation and productivity, and which cannot be explained by factors that counteract the falling tendency the increasing intensity of the exploitation of human labor, the diminution of the price of the elements of constant capital, etc."
"That is why, before, the monetary and commercial inscription does not have a body of its own at its disposal, and why it is inserted into the interstices of the pre existing social body."
"In idiocy, what was observed was a general paralysis, a somnolence 'of all the functions of understanding and moral affections', with the mind frozen in a sort of stupor."
"The uncontested leader, Madness, leads the troupe, naming her partners and ordering the dance:"
"The nineteenth and twentieth centuries by contrast centred their interrogation on the analytical consciousness of madness, even presuming that this was the onlydomain of experience that would reveal the total, final truth about madness, and considering other forms of experience to be nothing more than approximations, rudimentary explorations or archaic elements."
"Descartes closes his eyes and ears the better to see the true light of the essential day, thereby ensuring that he will not suffer the dazzlement of the mad, who open their eyes and only see night, and not seeing at all, believe that they see things when they imagine them."
"For while the Same which includes difference and the identical which excludes it may be opposed in many ways, they remain no less principles of representation."
"It is not the given but that by which the given is given."
"' But to look in order to know, to show in order to teach, is not this a tacit form of violence, all the more abusive for its silence, upon a sick body that demands to be comforted, not displayed?"
"Thus there is a return in the analysis of living beings to Aristotelian analogies: the gills are to respiration in water what the lungs are to respiration in air."
"By the late eighteenth century, forms of madness that lacked any delirium were easily classed as melancholic."
"What is proper to all metaphysics is revealed in its 'humanism Now, Levinas simul taneously proposes to us a humanism and a metaphysics."
"Hospital foundations represented an immobilization of wealth, and, by their very inertia, created poverty; these must disappear, but they must be replaced by a national, constantly available fund capable of providing help when and where required."
"And the sacred character of the priest gave each of his injunctions an absolute value, so no one dreamt of trying to avoid them: '"
"That evening, he returned to his cell and slept peacefully:"
"The subject of writing does not exist if we mean by that some sovereign solitude of the author."
"not the term, but the interminable, not proper but featureless death, and not true death"
"But what is this long history, if we consider it only during the period of psychoanalysis?"
"But, since Levinas conceives true alterity as nonnegativity (nonnegative transcendence), he can make the other the true infinity, and make the same (in strange complicity with negativity) the false infinity."
"The effectiveness of labour was perceived as deriving from its ethical transcendence."
"If it is the truth about knowledge, then all it reveals is that knowledge is derisory, and that rather than addressing the great book of experience, learning has become lost in the dust of books and in sterile discussions,"
"a whole hermeneutics of the pathological fact, based on modulated, coloured experience, is required; one should measure variations, balances, excesses, and defects."
"The variations of relations and the distributions of singularities as these occur in the Idea have no origin except these rules which are formally distinct for this ontologically unique throw."
"We have already seen the worries that led to the birth of 'diseases of the nerves', and the belief that men became more fragile as they became more perfect."
"It cannot even be said that the falsification comes afterwards: it accompanies or doubles the actualisation."
"Not only is the thought of Being not ethical violence, but it seems that no ethics in Levinas's sense can be opened without it."
"Lordship, on the contrary, becomes sovereign when it ceases to fear failure and is lost as the absolute victim of its own sacrifice."
"Private persons are an illusion, images of images or derivatives of derivatives."
"to lead us back to the question of the See."
"In this infinitely open labour market, the 'fundamental price', which for Turgot meant a subsistence level for workers, and the price determined by supply and demand ended up as the same thing."
"But given the fact itself, language was never to be anything more than a particular case of representation (for the Classics) or of signification (for us)."
"In a word, every machine functions as a break in the flow in relation to the machine to which it is connected, but at the same time is also a flow itself, or the production of a flow, in relation to the machine connected to it."
"The point is that in the last resort infinite representation does not free itself from the principle of identity as a presupposition of representation."
"Is this confluence Le livre des questions?"
"example, the coexistence or complementarity of the section chief h'd the guardian of the earth)."
"At one and the same time language illuminates and hides Being itself."
"As such, we may distinguish between the ground or ideal Essence, the grounded in the form of Claimant or claim, and that upon which the claim bears in other words, the Quality that the ground possesses primarily and the claimant will possess secondarily, assuming that its claim is well grounded."
"Of course they have an unconscious role, but in two quite specific ways that deprive them even more of their supposed autonomy."
"A class is defined by a regime of syntheses, a state of global connections, exclusive disjunctions, and residual conjunctions that characterize the aggregate being considered."
"And it urges militant groups, as well as lone individuals, to analyze and fight against the effects of power that subjugate them: For a revolutionary group at the preconscious level remains a subjugated group, even in seizing power, as long as this power itself refers to a form of force that continues to enslave and crush desiring production. ."
"Will it be retorted that the schizo is not joyous either?"
"Unreason lurked in dark regions inaccessible to any moral conduct that might lead man towards the truth."
"In thisdomain, as in Sartor Resartus, it is the masked, the disguised or the costumed which turns out to be the truth of the uncovered."
"Univocity of being thus also signifies equality of being."
"'S Chronologically speaking, Cabanis presented his report on medical administration between Baraillon's project and the discussion of Vendemiaire in the Anciens, on Messidor Year"
"It is no longer the image which seeks to conquer difference as this seemed to be originarily included in the identical, but, on the contrary, identity which seeks to conquer that which it does not include of difference."
"This occurs with genetics."
"Just as psychoanalysis situates itself in the dimension of the unconscious (of that critical animation which disturbs from within the entiredomain of the sciences of man), so ethnology situates itself in the dimension of historicity (of that perpetual oscillation which is the reason why the human sciences are always being contested, from without, by their own history)."
"It would show that it was the constitutive but historically mobile bedrock that made possible the developments of concepts from Esquirol and Broussais to Janet, Bleuler and Freud."
"It is useless to apply to it questions deriving from a different type of economics one organized around production or work, for example; useless also to analyse its various concepts (even, and above all, if their names have been perpetuated in succeeding ages with somewhat analogous meanings), without taking into account the system from which they draw their positivity."
"the social codes through which histories and mythologists explain myths."
"The positivist psychiatry of the nineteenth century, like our own, may no longer have used the knowledge and practices handed on from the previous age, but they secretly inherited the relationship that classical culture as a whole had set up with unreason."
"How does one explain, he asks, that the criminal's pain can serve as an equivalent of the harm he has done?"
"As Laing says, they are interrupted in their journey."
"The opposition is systematic with the reduction."
"What is the peculiar property possessed by language and not by any other system of signs?"
"In the first place, graphism aligns itself on the voice, falls back on the voice, and becomes writing."
"(Even the psychoanalytic conception of repetition remains captive to such a movement."
"She shows that, in this sense, Lacan's theory should be interpreted less as a linguistic conception of the unconscious than as a critique of linguistics in the name of the unconscious."
"Psychoanalysis must undo the codes so as to attain the quantitative and qualitative flows of libido that traverse dreams, fantasies, and pathological formations as well as myth, tragedy, and the social formations."
"and to the second, in corresponding fashion: 'What an immense enumeration of symptoms. ."
"A thought which, without philology and solely by remaining faithful to the immediate, but buried nudity of experience itself, seeks to liberate itself from the Greekdomination of the Same and the One (other names for the light of Being and of the phenomenon) as if from oppression itself an oppression certainly comparable to none other in the world, an ontological or transcendental oppression, but also the origin or alibi of all oppression in the world."
"All our rhythms, our reserves, our reaction times, the thousand intertwinings, the presents and fatigues of which we are composed, are defined on the basis of our contemplations."
"Campanella, De sensu rerum et magia (Frankfurt, ."
"I am mad' with 'I am an animal', or 'I am a God' or 'I am a sign', or even 'I am a truth', as was the case for the nineteenth century up until Freud."
"Laying claim is not one phenomenon among others, but the nature of every phenomenon."
"When the confessor encountered 'hypochondriac patients who went to confession too often', he either gave them as penance a severe punishment that 'diluted their thick, sluggish blood', or sent them on a long pilgrimage: The change of air, the long road, absence from home, distance from the objects that brought them suffering, the company of the other pilgrims, the slow energetic movements that they were forced to make by walking, all acted on them far more effectively than the comfortable journeys that nowadays pass for pilgrimages."
"We have said in fact."
"Even Oedipal psychoanalysis recognized the indifference of the effective parental images, the irreducibility of the response to the stimulation performed by these images."
"It is not a question here of the personal oedipalization of the author and his readers, but of the Oedipal form to which one attempts to enslave the work itself, to make of it this minor expressive activity that secretes ideology according to thedominant codes."
"Abb Girard, Les Vrais Principes de la langue fran aise (Paris,."
"Linnaeus uses the same distribution."
"Money, as conceived by Classical thought, cannot, in fact, represent wealth without that power being modified, from within, by time whether a spontaneous cycle augments, after having first diminished, its capacity for representing wealth, or whether governmental policy, by dint of concerted efforts, keeps its representativity constant."
"If the brain alone is the cause of the illness, then its origins can be sought in the dimensions of the cerebral matter, which was either too small to function correctly, or too abundant, and therefore less solid and, so to speak, of lower quality, mentis acumini minus accomodum '"
"And did so through precipitation toward the seriousness of meaning and the of play; and to the fact that play includes the work of meaning or the meaning of work, and includes them not in terms of knowledge, but in terms of inscription: meaning is a function of play, is inscribed in a certain place in the configuration of a meaningless play."
"Let us momentarily set aside the religious horizon of witchcraft and its development throughout the classical age."
"But it is difficult to establish with any certainty that the numbers of the mad really did grow in the course of the eighteenth century, ie in a greater proportion than the rest of the population."
"It was therefore also linked to gems and precious stones, to all those ambiguous treasures whose sparkle was simultaneously a blessing and a curse, bright colours that enclosed a fragment of night."
"He remains trapped within an imaginary position in which he is captivated by the maternal imago; he situates himself within the Oedipal triangle in terms of this locale, which implies an impossible process of identification, involving forever after, in the mode of a pure imaginary dialectic, the destruction of one or the other of the partners."
"Madness therefore goes beyond the image, and yet is deeply embedded in it, for it solely consists of allowing the image to take on the value of total and absolute truth."
"By being cut off from what it represents, language was certainly made to emerge for the first time in its own particular legality, and at the same time it was doomed to be re apprehensible only within history."
"In every psychic system there is a swarm of possibilities around reality, but our possibles are always Others."
"It is as though these classifications had been an entirely empty activity, unfurling itself to find nothing at all, constantly being corrected in vain, a ceaseless activity that never succeeded in becoming real work."
"In this heliopolitics the social ideal will be sought in an ideal of fusion."
"At the Retreat, the human group was brought back to its original, purest form; men were put back into elementary social relations, which conformed absolutely to their origins, which was to say that they had to be both rigorously founded and rigorously moral."
"Broussais, Memoire sur la philosophie de la medecine (Paris,. ."
"Implicitly or not, the thought of infinity would open the question, and the ontico ontological difference."
"The time of the body does not affect, and still less determines, the time of the disease."
"Similarly for the expressions logos and nomos, in so far as these refer to problems of distribution."
"This identification intervenes from the moment when Descartes determines natural light (which in its undetermined source should be valid even for the mad), from the moment when he pulls himself out of madness by determining natural light through a series of principles and axioms (axiom of causality according to which there must be at least as much reality in the cause as in the effect; then, after this axiom permits the proof of the existence of God, the axioms that the light of nature teaches us that fraud and deception necessarily proceed from some defect."
"Psychology was to be instilled inside guilty consciences, in the play between the values that society recognised and those it demanded."
"In considering repetition in the object, we remain within the conditions which make possible an idea of repetition."
"A tragic confrontation between need and illusion in an oneiric mode, announcing Freud and Nietzsche, the delirium of Rameau's Nephew is also an ironic repetition of the world, its destructive reconstitution in a theatre of illusion: shouting, singing, twirling like a man possessed, acting at the same time all the roles of all the male and female dancers and singers, a whole orchestra, an entire opera, dividing himself into twenty different roles, running around in circles, before suddenly stopping like a man possessed, his eyes wild, foaming at the mouth he cried, shouted and sighed, he looked moved, tranquil and furious; he was a woman fainting in agony, a miserable creature filled with despair, a temple that rose up, the birds that fall silent with the setting sun he was night with its darkness, he was shadows, he was silence."
"The problem of their respective limits would be that much more formidable to the conceptual opposition."
"And there, in the privileged environment of confinement, and under its purified gaze, the division is made: if the subject manifested obvious signs of madness, all doubt should disappear."
"If the Western world did battle with itself in order to know whether life was nothing but movement or whether nature was sufficiently well ordered to prove the existence of God, it was not because a problem had been opened up; it was because, after dispersing the undefined circle of signs and resemblances, and before organizing the series of causality and history, the episteme of Western culture had opened up an area to form a table over which it wandered endlessly, from the calculable forms of order to the analysis of the most complex representations."
"The ground fond as it appears in a homogeneous extensity is notably a projection of something 'deeper' profond"
"Alternatively, in the second sense, the same and the similar are only an effect of the operation of systems subject to eternal return."
"It can be proposed that the classical crisis developed from and within the elementary tradition of a logos that has no opposite but carries within itself and says all determined contradictions."
"Likewise, every system contains its dark precursor which ensures the communication of peripheral series."
"The same values are to be found in the story of the soldier Cheving his encounter with Pinel was less the meeting of two like forms of reason than of two clearly defined social characters who instantiate their type perfectly and strike up a rapport in accordance with pre ordained social structures."
"No chain could be detached, nothing could be selected; nothing would pass from filiation to descent, but descent would be perpetually reduced to filiation in the act of re engendering oneself; the signifying chain would not form any code, it would only emit ambiguous signs and be perpetually eroded by its own energetic support; what would flow on the full body of the earth would be as unfettered as the noncoded flows that shift and slide on the desert of a body without organs."
"They create distinctive points, privileged instants which always indicate a poly rhythm."
"(In Totality and Infinity the Phenomenology of Eros describes the movement of the epekeina tes ousias in the very experience of the caress.)"
"We have seen that a double process of reciprocal determination and complete determination defined that reality: far from being undetermined, the virtual is completely determined."
"The extra ordinary formal beauty of the text links, in a single movement, the internal work of a language in pursuit of perception with all the strength of its stylistic originality, and the conquest of a hitherto unperceived pathological individuality: The liver, reduced to a third of its volume, was, as it were, hidden in the region that it occupies; its external surface, slightly mammillated and emptied, was a yellowish grey in col our; when cut, it seemed to be made up entirely of a mass of small seeds, round or oval in shape, varying in size from a millet seed to a hemp seed."
"I has little to do with fantasy and dream."
"The despotic signifier has the effect of overcoding the territorial chain."
"On the one hand, it had incontestably practical functions, as entrusting a madman to the care of boatmen meant that he would no longer roam around the city walls, and ensured that he would travel far and be a prisoner of his own departure."
"To precomprehend or explicate the implicit relation of Being to the existent is not to submit the existent (for example, someone) to Being in a violent fashion."
"The not expresses not the negative but the difference between Being and being."
"If writing is not a tearing of the self toward the', other within a confession of infinite separation, if it is a delectation of artist, then it destroys itself."
"Madness was no longer a dark power that threatened to undo the world, revealing fantastical seductions, and no longer showed, in the twilight of Time, the violence of bestiality, or the great struggle between Knowledge and Interdiction."
"Paracelsus says: It is not God's will that what he creates for man's benefit and what he has given us should remain hidden. ."
"So it is that psychoanalysis has much difficulty extracting itself from an infinite regression:"
"Formerly, Levinas had given us to under posed afterward, or subordinated to a determined relation (an ethical relation, for example) is this not to forbid oneself"
"but the very achievement of truth, which, despite him, at a certain point demands that his personal reason become the pure impersonal tran scendence from which there is no return"
"` It is the analogy of these relations that makes it possible to identify a disease in a series of diseases."
"Addressing himself to me, the most contemplative ofm blood brothers said: To make no dffierence between a Jew and him who is not Jewish, is this not already to cease being a Jew?"
"The world is sliding into universal Fury, and the victor will be neither God nor the Devil, but Madness itself."
"It is the nature and degree of this mythic contemplation, but also the kind of occasions necessary for remembering, which determine the value and the order of different types of present madness."
"The first time is enough to make Zarathustra ill, producing his terrible nightmare and leading him to undertake a sea voyage."
"In this figure, which is at once empirical and yet foreign to (and in) all that we can experience, our consciousness no longer finds as it did in the sixteenth century the trace of another world; it no longer observes the wandering of a straying reason; it sees welling up that"
"According to Menuret, this invention, which he dated back to the mid seventeenth century, was the result of a fortunate coincidence."
"To return, as to the only possible point of departure, to the intentional phenomenon in which the other appears as other, and lends itself to language, to every possible language, is perhaps to give oneself over to violence, or to make oneself its accomplice at least, and to acquiesce in the critical sense to the violence of the fact; but in question, then, is an irreducible zone of factuality, an original, transcendental violence, previous to every ethical choice, even supposed by ethical nonviolence."
"Conversely, attention has often been drawn to the mythopoetical nature of bricolage."
"The task of modern philosophy has been defined: to overturn Platonism."
"In this sense, the univocity of species in a common genus refers back to the equivocity of being in the various genera: the one reflects the other."
"(Also at the beginning, said Marx, the first capitalists could not be unaware of."
"In the unconscious there are only populations, groups, and machines."
"ses dependances, I, pp."
"Paradoxically, Ricardo's pessimism and Cuvier's fixism can arise only against a historical background: they define the stability of beings, which henceforth have the right, at the level of their profound modality, to possess a history;"
"its power is in our midst (Saint John Perse)."
"This is possible only to the extent that affirmation as a mode of the proposition is produced from extra propositional genetic elements (the imperative questions or original ontological affirmations), then 'carried through' or determined by way of problems (multiplicities or problematic Ideas, ideal positivities)."
"And, first of It is this extreme and difficult sense of spectacular representation that all, a parricide."
"Second, all that was most unreasonable, shameful and deeply immoral about power in the eighteenth century was represented within the space of confinement, and by a madman: '"
"It is not a matter of being which is distributed according to the requirements of representation, but of all things being divided up within being in the univocity of simple presence (the One All)."
"A principle of complete determination corresponds to this element of potentiality."
"In this case, repetition is no more than a conservatory, a power of memory itself."
"But, fourthly, this limit inhibited from the interior was already projected onto a primordial beginning, a mythical matrix as the imaginary limit."
"The tissual area is not an empty, imperceptible place where pathological events are offered to perception; it is a segment of' perceptible space to which one can relate the phenomena of the disease."
"Incest, a slandered shallow stream."
"To abolish chance is to fragment it according to the laws of probability over several throws, in such a way that the problem is already dismembered into hypotheses of win and loss, while the imperative is moralised into the principle of choosing the best hypothesis which determines a win."
"The arena where the sacred and the profane had done battle vanished, and was replaced by a world where previously powerful symbols were reduced to the status of tell tale signs betraying evil intent."
"In the infinitely large, the equal contradicts the unequal to the extent that it possesses it in essence, and contradicts itself to the extent that it denies itself in denying the unequal."
"What appeared was a new relation to madness, more immediate in some senses, but more external as well."
"The third form of similitude is analogy."
"This results in a double reversal:"
"It is conceivable, in fact, that the operation that pledges the money is guaranteed by the marketable value of the material from which it is made; or, on the other hand, by another quantity of merchandise, exterior to it, but linked to it by collective consent or the will of the prince."
"Such at least was the thesis defended by Darut."
"extent that this problem could not In question, first, would be:."
"It would be helpful here to reproduce the analysis of Polyeucte, in which the schema reaches its greatest perfection and greatest internal complication; and does so with a mastery such that one wonders whether the credit is due Corneille or Rousset."
"It was placed at a distance a distance that was not merely symbolised, but effectively realised on the surface of the social sphere by the closing off of houses of confinement."
"Perhaps from one century to another the same name does not refer to the same sicknesses but this is because fundamentally it is not the same illness that is in question."
"Hume's famous thesis takes us to the heart of a problem:"
"In this way one would be able to constitute a number of perfect and exhaustive series, of absolutely continuous chains in which the breaks, if there were any, would indicate the place of a word, a dialect, or a language no longer in existence."
"It is not linked solely to individual desires, modified by them, or variable like them."
"For the principle of diversification according to the organs thatdominated the anatomy of Morgagni and his predecessors, Bichat substituted a principle of isomorphism in the tissues based on 'simultaneous identity and external conformation of structure, vital properties, and functions'."
"The same kind of questions could be posed concerning the notion of truth that runs throughout the book."
"But it would be inadequate to express the fact in this purely negative form: at the archaeological level, the conditions of possibility of a non verbal logic and a historical grammar are the same."
"Phenomena of individualization and sexualization are produced within these fields."
"That is to say, by man, who in permitting himself to be separated from Life by God, in permitting himself to be usurped from his own birth, became man by polluting the divinity of the divine."
"It will not even offer the presentation of a present, if present signifies that which is maintained in front of me."
"The ahistoricity of meaning at its origin is what profoundly separates Levinas from Heidegger, therefore."
"One involves succession in fact, the other coexistence in principle."
"What was the meaning of the frenzied ravings of the insane, which was not to be found in the more intelligible opinions of the other inmates?"
"Those who are 'wise'?"
"Therefore, as often as women advise with me about this or that disorder of the body, the Reasons whereof cannot be deduced from the common Axioms for finding out Diseases; I always diligently enquire of them, whether they are not chiefly affected with that Indisposition which they complain of, when they have been disturbed in their Minds, and afflicted with Grief."
"It dreams less of acting tl an of constituting a natural milieu, the element of an action which passes from more to less differenciated: for example, the good sense of eighteenth century political economy which saw in the commercial classes the natural compensation for the extremes, and in the prosperity of commerce the mechanical process of the equalisation of portions."
"The tree of engraving and grafting no longer belongs to the garden; it have a choice only between a natural or an institutionalized solitude:"
"And yet they played an important role: by linking medicine with the destinies of states, they revealed in it a positive significance."
"This is the realm of the silent majority."
"Is not another form of subjugation in preparation?"
"Madness was so much a symbol of the powers that punish that it effectively played the role of a supplementary punishment, an additional torture that maintained order in the uniform punishments of the houses of correction."
"A slave does not cease to be a slave by taking power, and it is even the way of the world, or the law of its surface, to be led by slaves."
"This perfected vision of Bic tre thereby found a double justification: for the outside world, it was pure profit, as it was unremunerated work, and Musquinet reckoned that for workers, it was worth precisely pounds per year."
"There is much that might he said about Bichat's `vitalism'."
"In the organic totality of the lung, pleurisy attacks only the pleura, pleuropneumonia the parenchyma, catarrhal coughs the mucous membranes.'"
"These contemplative souls must be assigned even to the rat in the labyrinth and to each muscle of the rat."
": a concept may be in principle the concept of a particular existing thing, thus having an infinite comprehension."
"They evolve in a convergent manner, according to the logic of tissual propagation: when an inflammation of the blood persists, it always reaches the lymphatic vessels; that is why phlegmasias of the respiratory system all culminate in pulmonary phthisis'; while intestinal inflammations usually tend to ulcerations of the peritoneum."
"Why then, once more, this geometer's privilege?"
"Generality, as generality of the particular, thus stands opposed to repetition as universality of the singular."
"With the reaction that set in after Thermidor, the pessimism of Cabanis and Cantin seemed to be confirmed: the expected `brigandage' became widespread.'"
"It would be easy enough to show that the concept of structure and even the word structure itself are as old as the episteme that is to say, as old as Western science and Western philosophy and that their roots thrust deep into the soil of ordinary language, into whose deepest recesses the episteme plunges in order to gather them up and to make them part of itself in a metaphorical displacement."
"Thus this one small piece of analytic work would save the necessity for all the rest."
"the sixteenth century, economic thought is restricted, or almost so, to the problem of prices and that of the best monetary substance."
"The eternal return does not cause the same and the similar to return, but is itself derived from a world of pure difference."
"But the problem is only deferred."
"For if the woman is defined as a lack in relation to the man, the man in his turn lacks what is lacking in the woman, simply in another fashion: the idea of a single sex necessarily leads to the erection of a phallus as an object on high, which distributes lack as two nonsuperimposable sides and makes the two sexes communicate in a common absence castration."
"But it is also, with all seriousness, the maddest aspect of his project."
"To write is to know that what has not yet been produced within literality"
"A man, who seemed normal in all other aspects of his being, suddenly committed a crime of extraordinary savagery, and no cause or reason could be found to explain his action as no profit, interest or passion was involved; and once the act had been committed, the criminal returned to normal."
"Between the classificatory project and the known and recognised forms of madness, the foreign principle that slipped in was unreason."
"The theater of the prompter souffleur thus con structs the system of fear, and manages to keep fear at a distance with the learned machinations of its materialized meditations."
"It is in the case of sleep, and not of eccentricity, that the absolute totality of ideas derived from the senses becomes suspect, and is stripped of 'objective value', in the words of."
"In this sense, Joachim of Flora saw the essential: there are two significations for a single signifier."
"More generally, contact with other diseases, in this unkempt garden where the species cross breed, alters the proper nature of the disease and makes it more difficult to decipher; and how in this necessary proximity can one 'correct the malign effluvium that exudes from the bodies of the sick, from gangrenous limbs, decayed bones, contagious ulcers, and putrid fevers'?"
"However, what it doesn't allow to subsist it rediscovers through its own original means; it reterritorializes where it has lost the territorialities, it creates new archaisms where it has destroyed the old ones and the two become as one."
"If it still had a meaning, it was only with regard to an indigent population who could no longer look after their own needs."
"Such diseases were the natural heir to leprosy in the late fifteenth century, and the disease was treated in several leper hospitals."
"In all these cases, the relation of representation to itself, and the relations of order it becomes possible to determine apart from all quantitative forms of measurement, now pass through conditions exterior to the actuality of the representation itself."
"In this manner, it testifies to the persistent values of implication which confer upon it an essential function in the represented world of perception."
"He can thus invite us to go beyond all aesthetic repetition, beyond irony and even humour, all the while painfully aware that he offers us only the aesthetic, ironic and humoristic image of such a going beyond."
"Elie Faure said of Watteau: 'He imbued with the utmost transitoriness those things which our gaze encounters as the most enduring, namely space and forests.'"
"That means that the speaking subject ceaselessly moves, changes, modifies his convictions, and advances in his certainties, taking risks and constantly trying new things."
"To that end, Colombier recommended the creation 'of a department solely destined for the poor insane in each begging centre, where madness should be treated in all its forms'."
"For faith has its own Cogito which in turn conditions the sentiment of grace, like an interior light."
"The body without organs is an egg: it is crisscrossed with axes and thresholds, with latitudes and longitudes and geodesic lines, traversed by gradients marking the transitions and the becornings, the destinations of the subject developing along these particular vectors."
"More recently, other procedures have fulfilled this role better."
"If Jabes's poem is to risk having a meaning, or if his question, at least, is to risk having a meaning, the source must be presumed; and it must be presumed that the unity of the source is not due to a chance encounter, but that beneath this encounter another encounter takes place today."
"It matters little whether identity (as the identity of the world and the self) be considered analytic, in the form of the infinitely small, or synthetic, in the form of the infinitely large."
"From his first page on, he links the nature of the literary fact, always insuffi ciently examined, to the role in art of imagination, that fundamental activity about which uncertainties and oppositions abound."
"For, alive or dead, it is still a question of belief: the element of belief has not been abandoned."
", it hollows itself inside to indicate a concave surface."
"A single voice raises the clamour of being."
"We have not yet shown what grounds dramatisation, both for the actual and the Idea, as the development of the third element of sufficient reason."
"Rather, synthesis constitutes time as a living present, and the past and the future as dimensions of this present."
"What are the relations set up between the phenomena observed, the antecedences ascertained, the dis orders and deficiencies noted?"
"Consciousness establishes between the I and the representation a relation much more profound than that which appears in the expression"
"The theater as we practice it can therefore be reproached with a terrible lack of imagination."
"Representing must be understood in the strict sense:"
"In a more fundamental fashion, and at the level where acquired knowledge is rooted in its positivity, the event concerns, not the objects aimed at, analysed, and explained in knowledge, not even the manner of knowing them or rationalizing them, but the relation of representation to that which is posited in it."
"Those things are 'convenient' which come sufficiently close to one another to be in juxtaposition; their edges touch, their fringes intermingle,"
"hers was a gardener's gaze; one had to recognize the specific essence in the variety of appearances."
"Yet a problem in which a whole world collided, a problem without issue, in which no end could be seen, suddenly ceased to exist and we asked ourselves what we had been talking about."
"Here, the phases of distanciation are no longer phases of separation and inconstancy, but tests of fidelity (p."
"integrate it into the diverse industrial schemes; its autonomy appears strictly inconceivable."
"Now qualities are clearly pure differences: Consciousness gives us what are called qualitiessensations which are diferent (antlers) and whose difference (Anders, lit."
"But what is modified in these alternating states is the quantity of food that can be procured with a day's work; if commodities are in short supply and there are many consumers, each unit of labour will be remunerated with only a small quantity of subsistence; but if, on the other hand, commodities are in good supply, it will be well paid."
"Almost the contrary."
"The thematic of historicity, although it seems to be a somewhat late arrival in philosophy, has always been required by the determination of Being as presence."
"Gilchrist wrote an entire treatise on The Use of Sea Voyages in Medicine."
"The same is true of the Oedipal code: the libido as energy of selection and detachment is converted into the phallus as detached object, the latter existing only in the transcendent form of stock and lack (something common and absent that is just as lacking in men as in women)."
"In other words, perhaps one might say that ontology precedes theology only by putting between brackets the content of the optic determination which, in post Hellenic philosophical thought, is called God: to wit, the positive infinity."
"In order to neutralise the forces of analogy in judgement, he took the offensive and neutralised being itself in an abstract concept That is why he only thought univocal being."
"Problems are tests and selections."
"The hysteron proteron would not here be a simple logical fallacy, a fallacy within logic, within an established rationality."
"But this absence of a link and of a meaning is positive, it constitutes the specific force of coherence of this constellation."
"Its powers are no longer that of a transport to an elsewhere, and its role is no longer to reveal the eruption of something that is radically other: instead, it forces the world to revolve around a circle of sameness."
"The formal reciprocal determination of the phonemes refers to that progressive determination which expresses the action of the virtual system on the phonic matter; and it is only when the phonemes are considered abstractly in other words, when the virtual is reduced to a simple possible that their relations take the negative form of an empty opposition, rather than that of filling differential positions around a threshold."
"The first book of Das Kapital is an exegesis of 'value'; all Nietzsche is an exegesis of a few Greek words; Freud, the exegesis of all those unspoken phrases that support and at the same time undermine our apparent discourse, our fantasies, our dreams, our bodies."
"Linnaeus pointed out that, by associating the hydra (which is an animal) and the conferva (which is an alga), or the sponge and the coral, in the same localities, nature is not, as the order of our classifications would have it, linking together 'the most perfect plants with the animals termed very imperfect, but combining imperfect animals with imperfect plants'."
"On the other hand, fixism and evolutionism tend to be reconciled to the extent that movement does not go from one actual term to another, nor from general to particular, but by the intermediary of a determinant individuation from the virtual to its actualisation."
"In effect the irruption of the logos, the accession to human consciousness of the idea of an infinite task of reason, does not occur only through a series of revolutions which at the same time would be self conversions, seeming to tear open a previous finitude in order to lay bare the power of a hidden infinity and to give voice to the dynamis of a silence."
"The postscript which constitutes the past present as such is not satisfied, as Plato, Hegel, and Proust perhaps thought, with reawakening or revealing the present past in its truth."
"This life is not natural life, the biological existence put at stake in lordship, but an essential life that is welded to the first one, holding it back, making it work for the constitution of selfconsciousness, truth, and meaning."
"There is no risk to life.'"
"Fang, let us say, has a secret."
"The route is opened in nature or matter, forest or wood (hyle), and in it acquires a reversibility of time and space."
"Nowhere else, other than in novels, have I come across husbands more worthy of being cherished, fathers and mothers more tender, lovers more passionate, or people more attached to their duties than most of the alienated who are happily brought to the period of convalescence."
"Scotus therefore deserves the name 'subtle doctor' because he saw being on this side of the intersection between the universal and the singular."
"But by a curious crossover, the day was to come when the family was discharged of its role in assisting the poor and alleviating the suffering of the sick, but still kept its fictitious values regarding madness; and long after the sickness of the poor had again become an affair of the State, asylums maintained the insane in a fictional family imperative."
"He made it depend upon the positing of a whole of reality as an Ens summum."
"The unconcealing of the existent, the clarity permits the reemergence of the notion of eschatology, as it appears, for example, in Holzwege: Being itself."
"For his contemporaries and for the generations that followed, Bosch was above all a moralist, and his work was a series of moral lessons."
"There were few Bridewells where 'any work is done, or can be done."
"; marriage of the father and the mother."
"Unchained bestiality could only be tamed or trained."
"The ever perilous freedom of dialogue is muted in this partition."
"In fact, Belon's description has no connection with anything but the positivity which, in his day, made it possible."
"This response, however, leaves two problems untouched and makes them even more urgent: on the one hand, the specific relationship between psychic repression and social repression; on the other hand, the particular situation of Oedipus in this social repression psychic repression system."
"And why are they repressed?"
"Let us call tertiary spatialization all the gestures by which, in a given society, a disease is circumscribed, medically invested, isolated, divided up into closed, privileged regions, or distributed throughout cure centres, arranged in the most favorable way."
"Cabanis, Rapport du conseil des cinq cents sur un mode provisoire de police medicale, Messidor Year pp."
"There are perhaps as many differences between genetics and Geoffroy as there are between modern atomism and Epicurus."
"From this point onwards, and for a period whose end is still impossible to see, the discourses of unreason became inextricably linked to the half real, half imaginary dialectic of the Family."
"Invulnerable to all determined opposition between reason and unreason"
"Is sympathy, in the final analysis, a property hidden in each organ, the 'feeling' that George Cheyne referred to, or is it a real propagation that travels through an intermediary element?"
"In a way that seems strange to us, but that was structurally necessary, the analysis of pathological tissues dispensed, over a period of several years, with even the most ancient instruments of optics."
"They are torn in two directions: archaism and futurism, neoarchaism and ex futurism, paranoia and schizophrenia."
"A movement unknown to classical philosophy is perhaps undertaken here, somewhere between the implicit and the explicit."
"those who do not bow to the imperialism of Oedipus are dangerous deviants, leftists who ought to be handed over to social and police repression; they talk too much and are lacking in anality (Dr. Gerard Mendel, Doctors Stephane)."
"Now the truth of madness is at one with the victory of reason and its definitive mastery, for the truth of madness is to be interior to reason, to be one of its figures, a strength and a momentary need to ascertain itself."
"But what lasted longer than leprosy, and persisted for years after the lazar houses had been emptied, were the values and images attached to the leper, and the importance for society of this insistent, fearsome figure, who was carefully excluded only after a magic circle had been drawn around him."
"Now that it was a thing exposed to knowledge that which was most interior to man, but also that which was most exposed to the gaze of others it operated as a great structure of transparency."
"And far from being able to get by with anything like the wretched maneuver where men answer that this itself is proof that women are castrated or even console women by saying that men are castrated, too, all the while rejoicing that they are castrated the other way, on the side that is not superimposable"
"As soon as we cease to believe in such an engineer and in a discourse which breaks with the received historical discourse, and as soon as we admit that every finite discourse is bound 'j by a certain bricolage and that the engineer and the scientist are also species of bricoleurs, then the very idea of bricolage is menaced and the difference in which it took on its meaning breaks down."
"Third, the origin of the relation: a sign may be natural (in the sense that a re<U+FB02>ection in a mirror denotes that which it re<U+FB02>ects) or conventional"
"And as a basis for taxonomies, organic structure appears in four different ways."
"Have we set up any chairs of clinical medicine in our hospitals?"
"We believe in desire as in the irrational of every form of rationality, and not because it is a lack, a thirst, or an aspiration, but because it is the production of desire: desire that produces realdesire, or the real in itself."
"And perhaps, in the very oldest stratum of our history, consonants and vowels, differentiated only as two still vague groups, formed as it were the two sole names upon which human speech is ultimately articulated: the singing vowels speaking our passions; the rough consonants our needs."
"Such a hybris keeps itself within the world."
"Yet for d'Argenson, there is little difference between her and the other insane: '"
"They might serve as an example.'"
"But the mode in which the air, the water, the climate, or the earth acts upon animals is not that of an environment upon a function and upon the organs in which that function takes place; here, the exterior elements intervene only in so far as they occasion the emergence of a character."
"Decoded desires and desires for decoding have always existed; history is full of them."
"The initial moment of any treatment is thus the repression of that inadmissible truth, the abolition of the evil that reigns there, and the forgetting of this violence and these desires."
"By contrast, all the psychological or organic signs of weakness 'lowness of spirits, lethargic dullness, melancholy and moping' demonstrate that the nerves have become overly damp and flaccid, doubtless as the consequence of 'grossness, glewiness or viscidity of the animal juices, obstructing the glands, the serous pipes and the capillary blood vessels'."
"Even if the sun is never named."
"On what could books in general live, what would they be if they were not alone, so alone, infinite, isolated worlds?"
"And possibly all Classical literature resides in this space, in this striving to reach a name that remains always formidable because it exhausts, and thereby kills, the possibility of speech."
"The usual attitude towards what it has been agreed to call 'mercantilism' is doubly unjust: either it is denounced for comprising a notion it continually criticized (the intrinsic value of precious metal as the principle of wealth), or it is revealed as a series of immediate contradictions: it is accused of defining money in its pure function as a sign while insisting upon its accumulation as a commodity; of recognizing the importance of quantitative <U+FB02>uctuations in specie, while misunderstanding their action upon prices; of being protectionist while basing its mechanism for the increase of wealth upon exchange."
"It promised that madness would one day take over the world, not in the apocalyptic form of the triumph of the Insane the fifteenth century had imagined, but in a continuous, pernicious and progressive manner that had no foreseeable end figure, growing ever more youthful from the very ageing of the world around it."
"Schizophrenia itself, as a process?"
"With these fictitious values locked up inside it, the asylum was sheltered from the forces of history and social change."
"Pale, minuscule, those silhouetted figures in the mirror are challenged by the tall, solid stature of the man appearing in the doorway."
"Royal incest is inseparable from the intense multiplication of organs and their inscription on the new full body."
"Understood in this sense, the intentional relationship of ego to my world cannot be opened on the basis of an infinite other radically foreign to my world, nor can it be imposed upon me by a God who determines this relationship: The subjective a priori is that which precedes the Being of God and of everything, without exception, which exists for me, a thinking being."
"To the extent that the requirements of resemblance disappear, two quarrels seem to lose much of their meaning."
"When Kierkegaard explains that the knight of faith so resembles a bourgeois in his Sunday best as to be capable of being mistaken for one, this philosophical instruction must be taken as the remark of a director showing how the knight of faith should be played."
"Striking my chest with my fist"
"For perhaps the flows are not yet de territorialized enough, not decoded enough, from the viewpoint of a theory and a practice of a highly schizophrenic character."
"However, the mutation of the analysis of Discourse into an analytic of finitude has one other consequence."
"However, a perseveration is still not a repetition."
"ie real is reduced to praise of the immediate sensibility."
"For this reason interpretation is always retrospective, as the perceived meaning."
"This origin, as the concrete condition of rationality, is nothing less than irrational, but it could not be included in language."
"The present is always contracted difference, but in one case it contracts indifferent instants; in the other case, by passing to the limit, it contracts a differential level of the whole"
"Zimmermann, in order to dis cover the force of the circulation, had expressed a wish that 'doctors should be free to make their observations in this respee by placing their hands directly on the heart'; but he added that 'our delicate morals prevent us from doing so, especially in the case of women'."
"As we know, Artaud lived the morrow of a dispossession:"
"What was presented in the imagination as a blind similitude was merely the blurred and unre<U+FB02>ected trace of the great uninterrupted fabric of identities and differences."
"How can we be content to relegate the improbable to the beginning of a partial evolution, without also grasping it as the highest power of the past, or as the immemorial in memory?"
"High and low, moreover, are only a manner of speaking."
"And yet, not even in the shadow of a transcendent phallus are the unconscious effects of a signified established throughout the determinations of a social field; on the contrary, it is the libidinal investment of these determinations that situates their particular use in desiringproduction, and the comparative operation of this production with social production, whence derive the state of desire and its repression, the distribution of the agents, and the degree of oedipalization of sexuality."
"the gaze of the nosogra )"
"Every time that the problem of schizophrenia is explained in terms of the ego, all we can do is sample a supposed essence or a presumed specific nature of the schizo, regardless of whether we do so with love and pity or disgustedly spit out the mouthful we have tasted."
"The animal could not be mad, or at least it was not in its animality that its madness could originate."
"the greater the distance required, the lower its value, and the more tiresome"
"But at the same time they are the same machines, despite the fact that they are governed by two different regimes and despite the fact that it is admittedly a strange adventure for desire to desire repression."
": transition to the act, which itself is the repose of the desired form."
"This process is repeated with the next species, also given by the arbitrary nature of representation; the description should be as total as in the first instance, but with the one difference that nothing that has been mentioned in the first description should be repeated in the second."
"There is therefore no reason to fear that the accumulation of money in a state will cause prices to rise in it; and the principle established by Bodin that the great dearness prevalent in the sixteenth century was caused by the in<U+FB02>ux of gold from America is not valid; though it is true that an increase in specie causes prices to rise at first, it also stimulates trade and manufacturing; the quantity of wealth grows and the number of elements among which the coinage is to be divided increases by the same amount."
"It is an ambiguous form of consciousness, serene in the confidence that it is the keeper of the truth, but worried at recognising the obscure power of madness."
"All nonpolitical theater."
"A double pressure was alternately brought to bear on wages, causing them to fall constantly: poor harvests caused agricultural revenues to fall, and good harvests pushed down the retail prices."
"In its initial form, the clinic seeks to determine this locus by three means:."
"Dreams would only manipulate elements (stoicheia, says Warburton, elements or letters) contained in the storehouse of hieroglyphics, somewhat as written speech would draw on a written language:"
"A third aspect follows from this:"
"so ill suited to their condition, other than their provisional transfer, if such a thing is possible, to Bic tre."
"Once one defined a practical experiment carried out on the patient himself, one insisted on the need to relate particular knowledge to an encyclopaedic whole."
"And throughout the nineteenth century, language was to be examined in its enigmatic nature as verb: in that region where it is nearest to being, most capable of naming it, of transmitting or giving effulgence to its fundamental meaning, of rendering it absolutely manifest."
"'on the other hand' are the characteristic formulae of its false profundity or platitude."
"Are they not based on over lapping forms that nevertheless evade one another?"
"For what is the meaning of so that was what this meant The crushing of the so onto Oedipus and castration."
"Society is not exchangist, the socius is inscriptive: not exchanging but marking bodies, which are part of the earth."
"Let us read the section of Descartes that immediately follows his rejection of the hypothesis of madness: 'However, I must consider here that I am a man, and that consequently it is my custom to dream and to see in my dreams.'"
"From the limitexperience of the Other to the constituent forms of medical knowledge, and from the latter to and the conceptions of the Same, what is available to archaeological analysis is the whole of Classical knowledge, or rather the threshold that separates us from Classical thought and constitutes our modernity."
"The whole not only coexists with all the parts; it is contiguous to them, it exists as a product that is produced apart from them and yet at the same time is related to them."
"Intendants in the provinces were instructed to ensure that charitable houses had some economic significance."
"Inversely, bank credit effects a demonetization or dematerialization of money, and is based on the circulation of drafts instead of the circulation of money."
"And the discourse that contains this being and frees it for its own sake is literature."
"In order to hide this all too obvious procedure, Kant suppressed this text in the second edition."
"And this essential drama, we come to realize, exists, and in the image of something subtler than Creation itself, something which must be represented as the result of one Will alone and without conflict."
"In the name of transcendental philosophy (immanence of criteria), he therefore denounced the transcendent use of syntheses such as appeared in metaphysics."
"Fundamentally he is not really interested in the nature and significance of the counter prestations that serve as equivalents for women in the systems he is discussing."
"But the clinic itself did not provide the training that had been expected of it: there were too many students and too many patients. '"
"General questions that will have to be determined and specified along the way, many of which, most, will remain open."
"Everything begins with structure, configuration, or relationship."
"But in relation to the object taken as the immanent limit of the series of virtuals, and as the principle of the second passive synthesis, these are the successive presents of the reality which now forms coexistent series, circles or even arcs of the same circle."
"hence the danger of 'psychologism', of 'sociologism', of what we might term, in a word, 'anthropologism' which becomes a threat as soon as the relations of thought to formalization are not re<U+FB02>ected upon correctly, for example, or as soon as the modes of being of life, labour, and language are incorrectly analysed. '"
"In rather than using horses, an attempt was made to use teams of prisoners working in shifts from five a.m. to eight.m."
"I Sicknesses of the spirit (Geisteskrankheiten)."
"Increasingly a political and economic explanation was sought, where riches, progress and the institutions were seen as determining factors for madness."
"Thus subjective Michel Foucault shows that the human sciences found their principle in production and were constituted on the collapse of representation, but that they immediately re establish a new type of representation, as unconscious representation (The Order Things see reference note, pp."
"But the capitalist machine, insofar as it was built on the ruins of a despotic State more or less far removed in time, finds itself in a totally new situation: it is faced with the task of decoding and deterritorializing the flows."
"no less legitimately has denounced, with a gesture that does not give shelter to another metaphysics, the other madness, as the metaphysics which lives within difference, within metaphor and the work, and thus within alienation; and lives within them without conceiving them as such, beyond metaphysics."
"The symbolic organ of repetition, the phallus, is no less a mask than it is itself hidden."
"The distinct was precisely the obscure: it was the obscure in so far as it was distinct."
"As madness was an illusion, the cure for madness, if it could be truly effected by the theatre, could also be brought about by even more direct means, through the suppression of theatre."
"Precisely because the family, when opened to alliances, is coextensive with and adequate to the social historical field; because it animates social reproduction itself; because it mobilizes or causes passage of the detachable fragments without ever converting them into a detached object no reduction whatever, no application is possible that would answer to the formula"
"Nevertheless, here again we have no idea of difference, no concept of difference as such."
"The latter, in the case of each animal he examined, offered the reader, and on the same level, a description of its anatomy and of the methods of capturing it; its allegorical uses and mode of generation; its habitat and legendary mansions; its food and the best ways of cooking its <U+FB02>esh."
"All that is voracious and shameless in his character, the cynicism that is occasionally reborn in him, is not a hypocrisy that finally decides to reveal its secrets, for his secret is precisely in not being able to be hypocritical."
"One may recall the insults addressed to Wittfogel for having ra!sed this simple question: wasn't the category of the Oriental despotic Sta hallenged for reasons having to do with its special paradigmatic status as a horizon for modern socialist States?"
"The condition of its truth is the necessity that blurs its outlines."
"We now come to the realization that the simple opposition between the two groups is inadequate, an opposition that would allow one to define neurosis as an intra oedipal disorder, and psychosis as an extra oedipal escape."
"I feel at an even deeper level, which gives hallucinations their object and thought delirium"
"Whytt noted in particular the importance of wind, phlegm and mucus, intestinal worms, 'aliments improper in their quality or quantity, scirrhous or other obstructions of the viscera of the lower belly, violent afflictions of the mind'."
"But, differing from Hegelian lordship, it does not even want to maintain itself, collect itself, or collect the profits from itself or from its own risk; it cannot even be defined as a possession."
"The region of maximal activity is the first to come into play, exercising adominant influence on the development of the corresponding parts at a lower rate: the individual in the egg is a genuine descent, going from the highest to the lowest and affirming the differences which comprise it and in which it falls."
"Or is every difference indeed intrinsic and conceptual in the last instance?"
"It is Freud's testament."
"In attempting to reconstitute the lost unity of language, is one carrying to its conclusion a thought which is that of the nineteenth century, or is one pursuing forms that are already incompatible with it?"
"The path towards that ideal can be followed from Plater to Linnaeus or Weickhard, and what becomes apparent is a language where the divisions of madness are to be formulated on the basis of its own nature, and the natural totality that is formed by all possible illness."
"In this way desire will be fused to lack."
"Whence the role of names, with a magic all their own: there is no ego that identifies with races, peoples, and persons in a theater of representation, but proper names that identify races, peoples, and persons with regions, thresholds, or effects in a production of intensive quantities."
"Desiringmachines function within social machines, as though they maintained their own regime in the molar aggregates that they form at the level of large numbers."
"One might then believe in liberated desires, but ones that, like cadavers, feed on images."
"Hence the fundamental place of medicine in the over all architecture of the human sciences: it is closer than any of them to the anthropological structure that sustains them all."
"As Kierkegaard understands it, repetition is the transcendent correlate shared by the psychical intentions of contestation and resignation."
"And in order to clarify the distance which must separate a phenomenological psychology from a transcendental phenomen ology, one would have to examine the nothing which prevents them from coming together, the parallelism which liberates the space of a transcendental question."
"Perhaps Bichat himself did not have enough confidence in his discovery, which, after all, was destined 'to change the face of pathological anatomy'; Laennec believed that he had exaggerated the importance of the geography of the organs, to which one needed only to refer in order to analyse disorders of form and position"
"The gesture that set it free in order to investigate it was also the operation that disseminated it, and hid it in all the concrete forms of reason."
"Those who were 'melancholic by devotion' had their pious books removed, as experience had shown that allowing them 'was the surest way of perpetuating their alienation, and even rendering it incurable."
"If the first hagiographers are to be believed, Saint Vincent de Paul hesitated for a while before taking over this former lazar house for his Congregation."
"Inversely, the chain of being is linked to human nature by the play of nature: for since the real world, as it presents itself to the gaze, is not merely the unwinding of the fundamental chain of being, but offers jumbled fragments of it, repeated and discontinuous, the series of representations in the mind is not obliged to follow the continuous path of imperceptible differences; extremes meet within it, the same things occur more than once; identical traits are superimposed in the memory; differences stand out."
"All inflammations of serious membranes can be recognized by their thickening, the disappearance of their transparency, their whitish colour, their granulous alterations, and their adhesion to adjacent tissues."
"And we claim the right to a radical laxity, a radical incompetence the right to enter the analyst's office and say it smells bad there."
"Or what preternatural substance, or deprav'd juices, can there be in any creek of these parts which cannot by this exercise of the body, be either reduc'd to such a constitution as is agreeable to nature, or scattered every way, and ejected?"
"Private individuals now had to deal directly, with no intermediaries and no controls, with all the human material that was previously consigned to the houses of confinement: vagabondage, prostitution, the debauchery and immorality, and of course all the confused forms that went from violence to frenzy, from weak mindedness to dementia."
"This is how the language of the social sciences criticizes itself."
"Illusions could cure the illusory whereas only reason could liberate the self from unreason."
"Since Van Helmont, maniacs were routinely given immersions in icy water, and Menuret gave an assurance that he had known one maniacal person who, after escaping from the prison where he was held, 'travelled several leagues in a violent rainstorm without a hat and almost naked, and by that exercise returned to health'."
"But it is interesting to find this essential concealment, miniaturized, occupying a place of honor in the analyst's office."
"All that remains is a background of gold and fog, intense, intensive, traversed in depth by what has just sundered its breadth: the schizo Everything becomes mixed and confused, and it is here that the breakthrough not the breakdown occurs."
"Hence schizophrenia is not the identity of capitalism, but on the contrary its difference, its divergence, and its death."
"In short, partial objects are the molecular functions of the unconscious."
"the relationship between man and woman is the direct, natural, and necessary relation of person to person."
"The State is thus induced to play an increasingly important role in the regulation of the axiomatized flows, with regard to production and its planning, the economy and its monetarization, and surplus value and its absorption (by the State apparatus itself)."
"A mere confrontation, eyes catching one another's glance"
"How can people possibly reach the point of shouting:"
"It is in this direction that we must look for the conditions, not of possible experience, but of real experience (selection, repetition, etc."
"The death of the primitive system always comes from without; history is the history of contingencies and encounters."
"Two different ways of interrogating nature when examining reason, and reason through nature."
"The eternal return is not the effect of the Identical upon a world become similar, it is not an external order imposed upon the chaos of the world; on the contrary, the eternal return is the internal identity of the world and of chaos, the Chaosmos."
"Desiring machines are not fantasy machines or dream machines, which supposedly can be distinguished from technical and social machines."
"Or again, because representation in its peculiar essence is always perpendicular to itself: it is at the same time indication and appearance; a relation to an object and a manifestation of itself."
"Yet how can it be denied that the eternal return is inseparable from the Same?"
"What a mistake to have ever said the id."
"But nothing has become formalized as yet."
"Artaud does not exemplify it."
"I felt, which remains familial and intimate in spite of everything, an intimate Oedipal feeling, even when it is interpreted structurally, on behalf of the pure signifier?"
"Natural history traverses an area of visible, simultaneous, concomitant variables, without any internal relation of subordination or organization."
"Similarly, the doctor began to play a decisive role in the organization of assistance."
"The character designates natural beings by situating them in their surroundings; monetary price designates wealth, but in the movement of its growth or diminution."
"And when judicial or medical experience was allowed to express an opinion on it, at trial or inside the asylums, it had already been secretly mastered."
"This state of being haunted, which keeps the city from returning to nature, is perhaps the general mode of the presence or absence of the thing itself in pure language."
"The unity of symbols was beginning to fall apart, and techniques were beginning to detach themselves from their global significance."
"Finally, a last question: if this great division is the possibility of history itself, the historicity of history, what does it mean, here, to write the history of this division To write the history of historicity?"
"So that it does not matter that letters do not represent ideas, since they can be combined together in the same way as ideas, and ideas can be linked together and disjoined just like the letters of the alphabet."
"Immediately after he has mentioned, in order to abandon it, the example of madness, Descartes evokes the case of dreams: In any case, I must consider here that I am a man, consequently that I am in the habit of dreaming, and of seeing the same things in my dreams, and sometimes seeing things more improbable than the waking visions of these insane people."
"And, in any case, can one efface the unfortunate impression that the sight of these places, which for many are nothing more than 'temples of death', will have on a sick man or woman, removed from the familiar surroundings of his home and family?"
"Why this detour via a particular point of my body, this paper, this fire, why a detour through the singular deceptions of madness and dream?"
"During the two further years that he remained at Bic tre, he never again suffered from frenzy, and even became useful around the house, exercising a certain degree of authority over the other inmates whom he controlled as he wished, almost taking on the status of a guard."
"It was enough during the first part of our research merely to evoke its presence, and to promise a fuller explanation later on."
"Moreover, there is no sovereignty itself"
"They would begin by questioning him as to his country of origin, the constitutions that are common there, his profession, his previous illnesses, the way in which his present illness began, the remedies already taken; they would investigate his vital functions (breathing, pulse, temperature), his natural functions (senses, faculties, sleep, pain); they would also have to 'palpate the abdomen in order to ascertain the state of his viscera'.'"
"On the contrary, it is the fortuitousness or the contingency of the encounter which guarantees the necessity of that which it forces to be thought."
"If throughout the world today and so many examples bear witness to this in the most striking fashion all theatrical audacity declares its fidelity to Artaud (correctly or incorrectly, but with increasing insistency), then the question of the theater of cruelty, of its present inexistence and its implacable necessity, has the value of a historic question."
"It must have another characteristic, of a temporal nature (I,."
"Sous la cendre Reb Selah"
"See Georges Bataille, La part maudite, precede de La notion"
"Has Kierkegaard not mixed all kinds of things together in his condemnation of 'aesthetic' repetition: a pseudo repetition attributable to general laws of nature and a true repetition in nature itself;"
"Such is the law of partial objects."
"The quest should therefore be for a good 'whose discovery and acquisition would afford a continuous and supreme joy, to all eternity'."
"Confinement hid unreason, thereby demonstrating that it was something to be ashamed of; but it put madness on show, pointing it out at arm's length."
"But that statement denounces and measures the illusions of the world of dreams, and indicates that we are not mad."
": I see not only the eyes of an other"
"We see both that the virtuals are deducted from the series of reals and that they are incorporated in the series of reals."
"Brissot for example drew up a plan for a perfect house of correction, according to the rigours of a geometry that was both architectural and moral."
"The evil genius would be the point where philosophy single handedly, and in the excess which is its own, risked madness; and the cogito, the moment when madness disappeared (not at all because it was excluded, but because its determination in the face of reason would cease to be relevant)."
"This living present, and with it the whole of organic and psychic life, rests upon habit."
"Thus it is that the famous eating machine, which in a sense, by its excess, is foreign to the film (Chaplin had invented it twenty two years before the film), is merely the formal, absolute exercise that prepares for the conduct also psychotic of the worker trapped in the machine, with only his upside down head sticking out, and who has Chaplin feed him his lunch, since it is lunch time."
"The passions of the mind, and certain poisons, are among the remote causes."
"Are the names of history derivatives of the name of the father, and are the races, cultures, and continents substitutes for daddy mommy, dependent on the Oedipal genealogy?"
"they are not selected contents but required forms."
"Lawrence says of love: We have pushed a process into a goal."
"In Chatham, the Saint Bartholomew leper house founded in had been one of the biggest in the country: by the time of Queen Elizabeth it had only two inmates, and it was finally closed altogether in The same regression of the disease was witnessed in Germany, although there the process was slightly slower."
"But the question, it seems to me, is this: are we born Hamlets?"
"But for the great majority of writers in the eighteenth century, frenzy has its cause and seat inside the brain, which becomes one of the centres of organic heat."
"Qualities are materially distinct, and comprise the distinctions corresponding to the variations of relations."
"For example, logocentric repression is not comprehensible on the basis of the Freudian concept of repression; on the contrary, logocentric repression permits an understanding of how an original and individual repression became possible within the horizon of a culture and a historical structure of belonging."
"One is neither superior nor external to that from which one benefits: a tyrant institutionalises stupidity, but he is the first servant of his own system and the first to be installed within it."
"Perhaps we now can ask, not about the conditions under which a modern theater could be faithful to Artaud, but in what cases it is surely unfaithful to him."
"If he was confined, it was because something else had been discerned in his book: a certain closeness of immorality and error."
"What will have happened, in fact, is that the configuration that made Quesnay and Condillac simultaneously possible will have been left behind; the reign of the episteme that based knowledge upon the ordering of representations will have been broken; and a new epistemological arrangement will have replaced it, an arrangement that distinguishes, though not without referring them to one another, between a psychology of needs represented and an anthropology of natural finitude."
"The Classical order of language has now drawn to a close."
"Sovereign behavior precisely demands a refusal to submit its operation to the condition preliminaries."
"Monsters are not of a different 'nature' from the species themselves: We should believe that the most apparently bizarre forms. ."
"For it is true that there are only perverted consequences, only distorted similarities, only decentred identities and only unattained ends."
"The introduction of the temporal factor is essential, even though Geoffroy conceives of it only in the form of stoppages in other words, progressive stages ordered according to the realisation of a possible common to all animals."
"The dream: a dubiousness of all things for all men."
"The parallelism between classification and nomenclature is thus, by this very fact, dissolved."
"As delirium was the dream of people in a waking state, it was necessary to jolt the delirious out of their semi sleep, and tear them from the dreamy wakefulness where images were all, that they might return to a genuine awakening, where the images of sleep would disappear before the figures of perception."
"They do not possess a common, previously defined space."
"Preventing, but calling upon each other, provoking each other too, unforeseeably and as if despite oneself, in a kind of autonomous overassemblage of meanings, a power of pure equivocal ity that makes the creativity of the classical God appear all too poor Speaking frightens me because, by never saying enough, I also say too rnuch."
"On the one hand, we find the analysis that provides an account of the inversion of the series of representations to form a non actual but simultaneous table representing of comparisons: the analysis of impressions, of reminiscence, of imagination, of memory, of all that involuntary background which is, as it were, the mechanics of the image in time."
"To begin with, a theme comes to light which until this point had remained unformulated, not to say non existent."
"It is merely its unwarranted privilege, a privilege beyond its capacities, that renders it mad."
"It would prescribe what books were to be read and what new works were to be written; it would indicate, on the basis of the information received, what treatment was to be administered for prevalent diseases; it would publish whatever was required by an enlightened medical practice, whether the results of inquiries carried out under its own supervision or foreign works."
"First, the certainty of the relation: a sign may be so constant that one can be sure of its accuracy (in the sense that breathing denotes life), but it may also be simply probable (in the sense that pallor probably denotes pregnancy)."
"The desiring sexual relationships of man and woman (or of man and man, or woman and woman) are the index of social relationships between people."
"Furthermore, the stages of' this moving death do not follow only, or very much, the nosological forms, hut, rather, the lines of facilitation proper to the organism."
"and nowhere is discloses itself as that which differs from everything that is ie what we call Being."
"Retention is the primary function of the family: it is a matter of learning what elements of desiring production the family is going to reject, what it is going to retain, what it is going to direct along the dead end roads leading to its own undifferentiated (the miasma), and what on the contrary it is going to lead down the paths of a contagious and reproduceable differentiation."
"A question to which the Classical period was to reply by the analysis of representation; and to which modem thought was to reply by the analysis of meaning and signification."
"But right at the end of the century the idea reappears, perhaps under the influence of English medicine, which had never entirely forgotten the moon, and Daquin, followed by Leur and Guislain, all admitted the influence of the moon on the phases of maniacal excitement, or at the least on the agitation of their patients."
"Only the extreme forms return those which, large or small, are deployed within the limit and extend to the limit of their power, transforming themselves and changing one into another."
"Oh unhappy earth,' lamented Bossuet, 'continually shrouded in a thick cloak of smoke from the dark vapours of tenebrous passion, hiding the sun and the sky, and constantly bringing down the thunder and lightning of divine justice, punishing the wickedness of humankind'."
"Bataille, thus, took Hegel seriously, and took absolute knowledge seriously.'"
"In ItS simplest, so called manual forms, the technical machine already implies an acting, a transmitting, or even a driving element that is nonhuman, and"
"As we have seen: according to Levinas, by making the other, notably in the Cartesian Meditations, the ego's phenomenon, constituted by analogical appresentation on the basis of belonging to the ego's own sphere, Husserl allegedly missed the infinite alterity of the other, reducing it to the same."
"And this response is double: it is not my fault if psychoanalysis attests to a great monotony and encounters the father everywhere in Flechsig, in the God, in the sun; it is the fault of sexuality and its stubborn symbolism."
"Even and above all the Freudian conception of the death instinct, understood as a return to inanimate matter, remains inseparable from the positing of an ultimate term, the model of a material and bare repetition and the conflictual dualism between life and death."
"They could see no distinction between Bic tre and the tel Dieu, or between Bethlem and a workhouse."
"we would have to say an expenditure and a negativity without reserve that can no longer be determined as negativity in a process or a system."
"Once again, it is not a question of knowing if the essence of a ritual is sexual, or if it is necessary to take into account political, economic, and religious dimensions that would go beyond sexuality."
"And that emergence, though it may be chronologically determined by such and such a global event, is rendered possible a priori by the general table of variables that defines all the possible forms of the living world."
"Thus, on the subject of the pathology of species, there is a revival of the old dispute between active medicine and expectant medicine."
"Now that we have had a look at this stroll of a schizo, let us compare what happens when Samuel Beckett's characters decide to venture outdoors."
"In transference, however, repetition does not so much serve to identify events, persons and passions as to authenticate the roles and select the masks."
"But how this cynicism has grown to the point where he is able to declare: no, nobody is being robbed!"
"The character that distinguishes each species or each genus is the only feature picked out from the background of tacit identities."
"They must carry normality within themselves."
"Freud, with difficulty, and in a manner that was perhaps not really radical, was later obliged to free it from evolutionism."
"Specific difference refers only to an entirely relative maximum, a point of accommodation for the Greek eye in particular for the Greek eye which sees the mean, and has lost the sense of Dionysian transports and metamorphoses."
"To see death in life, immobility in its change, skeletal, fixed space beneath its smile, and, at the end of its time, the beginning of a reversed time swarming with innumerable lives, is the structure of a Baroque experience whose reappearance was attested by the previous century four hundred years after the frescoes of Campo Santo."
"The joyous wandering of the graphein then became wandering without return."
"Oedipus is always and solely an aggregate of destination fabricated to meet the requirements of an aggregate of departure constituted by a social formation."
"Man, in the analytic of finitude, is a strange empirico transcendental doublet, since he is a being such that knowledge will be attained in him of what renders all knowledge possible."
"I again, that won't make any difference either."
"Such notions, which must be called 'phantastical' in so far as they apply to phantasms and simulacra, are distinguished from the categories of representation in several respects."
"Night, paradoxically, unveiled, and was the most profound light of being."
"This extreme, partial, scarcely indicated window frees a whole <U+FB02>ow of daylight which serves as the common locus of the representation."
"The Id is populated by local egos which constitute the time peculiar to the Id, the time of the living present there where the binding integrations are carried out."
"From this point of view, posology from Sauvages to Pinel had been like a figure confined within this abandonment to causal assignation: the disease set in and flourished in its essential affirmation, and causal series were merely so many elements within a schema in which the nature of the pathological served it as an effective cause."
"It did not yet have the status of a species, there was no fatal tendency to return to more rudimentary forms of life and organisation, and there was as yet no hope placed in a regenerating individual."
"Oedipus's misfortune is indeed that it no longer knows who begins where, nor who is who."
"But such measures were only taken if the scandal was public, or if there was a possibility that the interests of the families concerned would be compromised."
"For this proposition is anterior to such discourses, because it explicitly, and within a single question, establishes com munication between the essence of theft and the origin of discourse in general."
"Logos is nothing outside history and Being, since it is discourse, infinite discursiveness and not an actual infinity, and since it is meaning."
"We would be written, but nothing would be recorded; no writing would be produced, retained, repeated as legibility."
"nance of a familialist perspective, which wreaks havoc everywhere."
"It is because a difference can be internal, yet not conceptual (as the paradox of symmetrical objects shows)."
"Franck taught in turn."
"Descartes has loaded the dice: if the meditating subject were to have pretended to be a madman, just as he was to pretend a moment later that he was dreaming, it would have been necessary to propose to him the tempting image of a madman believing in his madness that he is actually sitting here beside the fire, looking at his paper and taking himself for a man who is meditating about a man who is sitting here right now, beside the fire, etc."
"This is what I personally call the Flesh."
"The distance that separates one disease from another can be measured only by the degree of their resemblance, without reference to the logicotemporal divergence of genealogy."
"Indeed, if it is necessary for time, which is limited, to run through or perhaps to have already run through the whole continuity of nature, one is forced to admit that a considerable number of possible variations have been encountered and then erased; just as the geological catastrophe was necessary to enable us to work back from the taxonomic table to the continuum, through a blurred, chaotic, and fragmented experience, so the proliferation of monsters without a future is necessary to enable us to work down again from the continuum, through a temporal series, to the table."
": at the top the only visible corner the painter's eyes; at one of the base angles, the invisible place occupied by the model; at the other base angle, the figure probably sketched out on the invisible surface of the canvas."
"In truth, it would be that which refuses to be an ontic determination which is included as such in the thought of Being, that is, on the basis and in the light of a thought of Being."
"Doesn't everyone know that you should clearly be recognised as Louis ?'"
"To ground, in this third sense, is to represent the present in other words, to make the present arrive and pass within representation (finite or infinite)."
"What is prolonged, what comes to a halt, what is detached, and the different relationships according to which these actions and passions are distributed, help us to understand the formation mechanism of the surplus value of code as an indispensable element of any coding of flows."
"Indeed, such a technique would probably be the most reliable,"
"And there madness was to remain until the end of the eighteenth century."
"And this is not a specifically Cartesian weakness (although Descartes never confronts the question of his own language), is not a defect or mysti fication linked to a determined historical structure, but rather is an essential and universal necessity from which no discourse can escape, or it belongs to the meaning of meai"
"Consider what we call repetition within a life more precisely, within a spiritual life."
"In the analytical consciousness of madness, the drama is appeased, and the dialogue silenced."
"Description, in clinical medicine, does not mean placing the hidden or the invisible within reach of those who have no direct access to them; what it means is to give speech to that which everyone sees without seeing a speech that can be understood only by those initiated into true speech. '"
"Considered outside its functioning, nothing distinguishes it from lordship."
"This 'there is', however, remains perfectly indeterminate."
"The system is arbitrary throughout its development, but once the system of variables the character has been defined at the outset, it is no longer possible to modify it, to add or subtract even one element."
"Their function was to supply food and lodgings to anyone who presented themselves, or was sent there by a royal or judicial decree, and to look after the subsistence and good order of anyone else for whom there was no room, but who might in other circumstances find themselves staying at the pital ral."
"The existence of Epicurean atoms may be doubted."
"But not only are these determinations sometimes too narrow and sometimes too wide, but the objective being they define as class interest remains purely virtual so long as it is not embodied in a consciousness that, to be sure, does not create it, but actualizes it in an organized party suited to the task of conquering the State apparatus."
"By no means does the diachronic capitalist machine allow itself to be revolutionized by one or more of its synchronous technical machines, and by no means does it confer on its scientists and its technicians an independence that was unknown in the previousregimes."
"In any case this injection of a psychoanalytical discourse (Lacan's version) into a custodial institution led to a collectivization of the analytical concepts."
"it only ever reappeared as engaged, constrained and reduced."
"This spontaneity will, in fact, unbalance an alternation construed by Rousset as a theoretical norm."
"Take the example of rhyme: it is indeed verbal repetition, but repetition which includes the difference between two words and inscribes that difference at the heart of a poetic Idea, in a space which it determines."
"Jones, Works vols., London,."
"It can be applied to everything, in that the agents and relations of social production, and the libidinal investments corresponding to them, are made to conform to the figures of familial reproduction."
"Thus from Hegel to Marx and Spengler we find the developing theme of a thought which, by the movement in which it is accomplished totality attained, violent recovery at the extreme point of poverty, solar decline curves over upon itself, illuminates its own plenitude, brings its circle to completion, recognizes itself in all the strange figures of its odyssey, and accepts its disappearance into that same ocean from which it sprang; in opposition to this return, which, even though it is not happy, is perfect, we find the experience of lderlin, Nietzsche, and Heidegger, in which the return is posited only in the extreme recession of the origin in that region where the gods have turned away, where the desert is increasing, where the te<U+03C7><U+03BD> has established thedominion of its will; so that what we are concerned with here is neither a completion nor a curve, but rather that ceaseless rending open which frees the origin in exactly that degree to which it recedes; the extreme is therefore what is nearest."
"In a word, it is the art of being in relation with relevant circumstances, of receiving impressions from objects as they are offered to us, and of deriving inductions from them that are their correct consequences."
"A succession of instants does not constitute time any more than it causes it to disappear; it indicates only its constantly aborted moment of birth."
"Inside the walls of the institutions were the debauched and the venereal, alchemists, libertines, those who 'claimed to be witches' and, as we shall see, the insane."
"but they don't share the same law or the same regime."
"I have regard for the face itself."
"But one must situate it much higher in the series if one defines it by means of a crowded and complex character, as Linnaeus did when he set up as his criteria birth (by seed or bud), nutrition (by intussusception), ageing, exterior movement, internal propulsion of <U+FB02>uids, diseases, death, and presence of vessels, glands, epiderms, and utricles."
", What does it mean?"
"What the seventeenth century had still considered to be the 'eminent dignity' of the poor, and which had given an eternal meaning to the act of charity, now became a primordial utility."
"When the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries confined madness together with debauchery and libertinage, the point is not that they had failed to diagnose an illness, but that they understood it in radically different terms."
"He took the most highly recommended medication to no avail, and quickly noted how physicians were killed by their own remedies. '"
"Madness was him, too, a silence, the voluble silef nce"
"In the period of Laplace, either under his influence or within a similar movement of thought, medicine discovered that uncertainty may he treated, analytically, as the sum of a certain number of isolatable degrees of certainty that were capable of rigorous calculation."
"He hoped to find reason in hiding, but what he found was animality, which displayed the full force of its violence."
"But if the question of formal languages gives prominence to the possibility or impossibility of structuring positive contents, a literature dedicated to language gives prominence, in all their empirical vivacity, to the fundamental forms of finitude."
"Bayle's discovery of to be quite distinct from discussions concerning the organicity of diseases."
"It is perhaps through the medium of this grey, anonymous language, always over meticulous and repetitive because too broad, that the painting may, little by little, release its illuminations."
"The exhaustive application of the moral law was no longer the preserve of accomplished acts, but was present from the very first social synthesis."
"We have too often been invited to judge the atheist from the viewpoint of the belief or the faith that we suppose still drives him in short, from the viewpoint of grace; not to be tempted by the inverse operation to judge the believer by the violent atheist by which he is inhabited, the Antichrist eternally given 'once and for all' within grace."
"In order to be able to show that these three pages of my text would carry away with them the other pages, in order to be able to criticise the totality of my book without saying a word about its historical content, its methods, its concepts, its hypotheses (where there would undoubtedly be ample room for criticism), it seems to me that Derrida was forced to falsify his own reading of Descartes, and also the reading that he made of my text."
"But this violent liberation of speech is possible and can be pursued only in the extent to which it keeps itself resolutely and consciously at the greatest possible proximity to the abuse that is the usage of speech just close enough to say violence, to dialogue with itself as irreducible violence, and just far enough to live and live as speech."
"But, let us repeat, all this within philosophical discourse, where the thought of Death itself (without metaphor) and the thought of a positive Infinity have never been able to understand each other."
"Differences in the work of breaching concern not only forces but also locations."
"Dufour tries to pin down this presence constantly in flight from itself in his Trait de l'entendement humain."
"The close contact between the waxed paper and the wax slab at the places which have been scratched (upon which the visibility of the writing depended) is thus brought to an end and it does not recur when the two surfaces come together once more."
"Agriculture is the only sphere in which the increase in value due to production is not equivalent to the maintenance of the producer."
"When we seek to define energy in general, either we take account of the extensive and qualified factors of extensity in which case we are reduced to saying 'there is something which remains constant', thereby formulating the great but flat tautology of the Identical or, on the contrary, we consider pure intensity in so far as it is implicated in that deep region where no quality is developed, or any extensity deployed."
"Neurotic territoriality of Oedipus, perverse territorialities of the artifice, psychotic territoriality of the body without organs: sometimes the process is caught in the trap and made to turn about within the triangle"
"Although in the Cartesian Meditations Husserl evokes only the analogy of the two movements (Sec., in many of the unpublished works he seems to hold them to be inseparable."
"A localised attack in the brain, and a general disturbance of sensibility."
"This agrees with a notion which I have long had about the method in which the perce ptu al app"
"It has been remarked in this context that each time Freud brings to the fore the study of the psychic apparatuses, the social and desiring machines, the mechanisms of the drives, and the institutional mechanisms, his interest in myth and tragedy tends to diminish, while at the same time he denounces in Jung, then in Rank, the re establishment of an exterior representation of the essence of desire as an objective desire, alienated in myth or"
"It is true that there are several ways to interpret such disharmonies: ideally, by the gap between the real institution and the assumed ideal model; morally, by invoking a structural bond between law and transgression; physically, as though it were a question of attrition that would cause the social machine to lose its capacity to wield its materials."
"Do we formulate speech or does it fashion us?"
"In the proposition understood as a complex entity we distinguish: the sense, or what is expressed in the proposition; the designated (what expresses itself in the proposition); the expressors or designators, which are numerical modes that is to say, differential factors characterising the elements endowed with sense and designation."
"The recognition of the most visible similitudes occurs, therefore, against a background of the discovery that things in general are 'convenient' among themselves."
"As Dalcq says, when a caudal appendix is induced by its intensive environment, that appendix corresponds to a certain level of morphogenetic potential and depends upon a system in which 'nothing is a priori caudal'."
"In his study The Empty Fortress, Bruno Bettelheim paints the portrait of this young child who can live, eat, defecate, and sleep only if he is plugged into machines provided with motors, wires, lights, carburetors, propellers, and steering wheels: an electrical feeding machine, a car machine that enables him to breathe, an anal machine that lights up."
"Marx, Grundrisse (see reference note, pp."
"All three are necessaryprecisely in order to lead Oedipus to the point of its self critique."
"You death affirmed since Dawn or the first question and Midday or the second question."
"Nonetheless, at the close of the eighteenth century, almost without dispute, hypochondria and hysteria are firmly classed as mental illnesses."
"Attributes are thus absolutely common to substance and the modes, even though modes and substance do not have the same essence."
"A certain ineradicable naturality, a certain original naivet"
"an institutional model at every stage of action, transmission, and motrictty."
"The third moment (which validates the test)"
"Chapter Repetition changes nothing in the object repeated, but does change something in the mind which contemplates it."
"Inflammation takes the same form in all serous membranes but it does not attack all the tissues as easily or develop in them at the same speed:"
"Marriage was prescribed, but society was obliged to turn a blind eye to infidelity."
"Those termed 'illuminated' and 'visionaries' are considered to correspond to the people we think of as suffering from hallucinations: 'visionary imagining he sees celestial apparitions', 'visionary who has revelations', and those described as 'imbeciles' are deemed cognitively deficient or suffering from some form of organic or senile dementia 'imbecilic after horrible debauchery with wine', 'an imbecile who is always talking, comparing himself to the Pope or a Turkish emperor', 'imbecile with no hope of return'."
"The fact is that specific difference is maximal and perfect, but only on condition of the identity of an undetermined concept (genus)."
"it is quite possible that all these questions are presented today in the distance that was never crossed between Nietzsche's question and Mallarm 's reply."
"The same remark holds true of children's games."
"Hautesierck, Recueil d'observations de medecine des pitaux militaires (Paris, vol."
"It would thus not be at the level of the relations between the individual and society, as has often been believed, that psychoanalysis and ethnology could be articulated one upon the other; it is not because the individual is a part of his group, it is not because a culture is re<U+FB02>ected and expressed in a more or less deviant manner in the individual, that these two forms of knowledge are neighbours."
"and 'repeat a little'."
"The path marked out by Lacan led in a completely different direction."
"However free madness became in the world that reasonable men had created for it, however close it came to their spirit and their hearts, it could never be anything other than an object for them."
"It is there, staring at us, but without eyes."
"It is true that we have strictly defined repetition as difference without concept"
"Gesner cites onomatopeias of course, but only as exceptions to a rule nd edn., Tiguri, pp."
"This error liberates negation and leads to the distortion of the dialectic by substituting the non being of the negative for the (non) being of problems."
"This is what we are told: this movement, the essence and the inferiority of movement, is not opposition, not mediation, but repetition."
"Instead, a theatre of problems and always open questions which draws spectator, setting and characters into the real movement of an apprenticeship of the entire unconscious, the final elements of which remain the problems themselves."
"It is the notion of multiplicity which denounces simultaneously the One and the many, the limitation of the One by the many and the opposition of the many to the One."
"We wish to indicate the difference between this type of artificial blockage and a quite different type which must be called a natural blockage of the concept One refers to logic pure and simple, but the other refers to a transcendental logic or a dialectic of existence."
"Freud suggested the following hypothesis: the organism wants to die, but to die in its own way, so that real death always presents itself as a foreshortening, as possessing an accidental, violent and external character which is anathema to the internal will to die."
"The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even'), the machine in Kafka's In the Penal Colony, Raymond Roussel's machines, those of Jarry's Surmiile (Supermale), certain of Edgar Allan Poe's machines, Villiers's Eve future (The Future Eve), etc.!"
"An enigma with no truth other than the one that could reduce it."
"But the essential thing is the establishment of an enchanted recording or inscribing surface that arrogates to itself all the productive forces and all the organs of production, and that acts as a quasi cause by communicating the apparent movement (the fetish) to them."
"An alienated person had crossed over into inaccessible territory, and everything in his world was out of reach for other mortals and for himself."
"It was therefore in a very concerted manner that the mad went from the register of the hospital to the correctional centre, and the signs that marked them apart were slowly erased as they were enveloped in a moral experience of unreason of a totally new sort."
"The 'sameness' of the Platonic Idea which serves as model and is guaranteed by the Good gives way to the identity of an originary concept grounded in a thinking subject."
"Oedipus was always the displaced limit for every social formation, since it is the displaced represented of desire."
"speaking Roots may be formed in several ways."
"This metaphysics of the flesh is also governed by the anguish of dispossession, the experience of having lost life, of separation from thought, of the body exiled far from the mind."
"The gaze saw sovereignty in a world of language whose clear speech it gathered up effortlessly in order to restore it in a secondary, identical speech:"
"Throughout the eighteenth century, classifiers had been establishing character by comparing visible structures, that is, by correlating elements that were homogeneous (since each element, according to the ordering principle selected, could be used to represent all the others): the only difference lay in the fact that for the systematicians the representative elements were fixed from the outset, whereas for the methodists they were the gradual result of a progressive confrontation."
"By making the origin of language, meaning, and difference the relation to the infinitely other, Levinas is resigned to betraying his own intentions in his philosophical discourse."
"Hegel clearly had proclaimed the necessity of the master's retaining the life that he exposes to risk."
"Certain hospitals did maintain that status for the mad throughout the classical age, until the great reform."
"It is in that sense that the Encyclop die proposed its famous definition of madness: abandoning reason 'to walk confidently away from it, with the firm persuasion that one is following it, that, it seems to me, is what is called genuinely mad'."
": Advantage is taken of the circumstances surrounding the bath, and the fault that has been committed or the omission of the important duty is recalled, and with the help of a tap a quick burst of cold water is directed at the head, often disconcerting the alienated patient, or freeing her from adominant idea with this strong and unexpected sensation."
"And so, for knowledge, the being of things is an illusion, a veil that must be torn aside in order to reveal the mute and invisible violence that is devouring them in the darkness."
"Meaning must await being said or written in order to inhabit itself, and in order to become, by differing from itself, what it is: meaning."
"As the element of metaphysics, representation subordinates difference to identity, if only in relating it to a third term as the centre of a comparison between two supposedly different terms (Being and being)."
"In this six page text, the analogy between a certain writing apparatus is and the perceptual apparatus is demonstrated in progressive steps."
"Hysteria is indifferently mobile or immobile, fluid or heavy, given to unstable vibrations or weighed down by stagnant humours."
"This led to the infamous techniques used in asylums like Charenton at the end of the eighteenth and the start of the nineteenth centuries."
"Their madness is not 'true' madness."
"For others it is alkaline in nature."
"There has been a fourfold displacement in relation to the Kantian position, for it is now a question not of truth, but of being; not of nature, but of man; not of the possibility of understanding, but of the possibility of a primary misunderstanding; not of the unaccountable nature of philosophical theories as opposed to science, but of the resumption in a clear philosophical awareness of that whole realm of unaccounted for experiences in which man does not recognize himself."
"How, amid all the aspects of the world and so many interlacing forms, does one recognize that one is faced at any given moment with a character that should give one pause because it indicates a secret and essential resemblance?"
"It therefore does not belong to any level or degree."
"The disorder of such places was unimaginable, and continued for a long time, up until the Empire period."
"If to understand Being is to be able to let be (that is, to respect"
"That whole, transported in its entirety to the waking state, is what constituted madness."
"One speaks upon the basis of a writing that is part of the fabric of the world; one speaks about it to infinity, and each of its signs becomes in turn written matter for further discourse; but each of these stages of discourse is addressed to that primal written word whose return it simultaneously promises and postpones."
": for the 'same' qualitative process, or the 'same' respective position of the stars determine only very crude resemblances among the phenomena they govern."
"A whole flow of exchange occurs between intensity and Ideas, as though between two corresponding figures of difference."
"For the family creates at the same time its disgraces and its honors, the nondifferentiation of its neurosis and the differentiation of its ideal, which are distinguishable only in appearance."
"This demonic hyperbole goes further than the passion of hybris, at least if this latter is seen only as the pathological modification of the being called man."
"The body without organs is not God, quite the contrary."
"It is the singular nature of this conjunction that ensured the universality of capitalism."
"Their customers would look to find a known analogy, become an excessive preoccupation with content, and an insufficient concern for venerable by long application to mysterious wisdom, for the relations, locations, processes, and differences"
"This quest for the roots of language may well appear to be a return to the historical hypothesis and to the theory of mother languages that Classicism seemed, for a time, to have suspended."
"Death comes all the more from without as it is coded from within."
"We are presented, then, with another choice: either to presuppose a spontaneous aptitude in living beings to change their forms (or at least to acquire with succeeding generations a slightly different character from that originally given, so that it will change gradually from one to the next and finally become unrecognizable), or to attribute to them some obscure urge towards a terminal species that will possess the characters of all those that have preceded it, but in a higher degree of complexity and perfection."
"Who then was entitled to complain about being mixed in with criminals?"
"is determined as philosophy this difference is decisive only at the culmination of a common root which is Greek."
"Whence the two aspects of the signifier: a barred transcendent signifier taken in a maximum that distributes lack, and an immanent system of relations between minimal elements that come to fill the uncovered field (somewhat similar, in traditional terms, to the way one goes from the Parmenidean Being to the atoms of Democritus)."
"Between a repetition which never ceases to unravel itself and a repetition which is deployed and conserved for us in the space of representation there was difference, the for itself of repetition, the imaginary."
"It is only then that its reinsertion will not do it violence, that there will be a legitimate reinsertion of this philosophical meaning itself."
"The only way to take talk of 'true and false problems' seriously is in terms of a production of the true and the false by means of problems, and in proportion to their sense."
"The distinction was rediscovered in the eighteenth century, and applied with rigour."
"We do not know, but observation has often shown the first two phenomena accompanied by that state, and that is enough for them to become signs in future';'' lastly, an operation which, beyond first appearances, scrutinizes the body and discovers at the autopsy a visible invisible: thus the examination of corpses has shown that in cases of pleuropneumonia with expectoration, the sudden interruption of pain and the gradual weakening of the pulse beat are signs of a hepatization of the lung."
"The first structure provided by classificatory medicine is the flat surface of perpetual simultaneity."
"a more profound dimension of nonoriginality the radical impossibility of going around to see things from the other side."
"The law of nature is constituted by the difference between words and things the vertical division between language and"
"A Child Is Being Beaten."
"For me, the most essential part of the work was in the analysis of these events, these bodies of knowledge, and those systematic forms that link discourses, institutions and practices, and these are all things about which Derrida has not a word to say in his text."
"Not that quality and image were banished from this new structure of immediate causality, but it did require them to be present in a visible organic phenomenon, which could be presented, without a risk of error or circular return, as the antecedent fact."
"Let us follow this displacement."
"Let us assume a concept with indefinite comprehension (virtually infinite)."
"From the Symbolic to the Imaginary, from castration to Oedipus, and from the despotic age to capitalism, inversely there is the progress leading to the withdrawal of the overseeing and overcoding object from on high, which gives way to a social field of immanence where the decoded flows produce images and level them down."
"All the other species of the genus are compared with the first, all discordant notes being eliminated; finally, after this process, the character emerges'."
"In the late sixteenth century, De Lancre blamed the demoniacal calling of a whole people on the sea; the uncertain furrow of the wake, the exclusive trust placed in the stars, the secret knowledge that passed from mariner to mariner, the distance from women and the ceaselessly shifting plain of the surface of the sea made men lose faith in god, and cast off the shackles of their attachment to their homeland, thereby opening the door to the Devil and the ocean of his ruses."
"The use of passion in the therapeutics of madness should not be understood as a kind of psychological medication."
"but it is simply not the case that things have come to the cruel extremity where a hospice for unfortunates has become a new source of inevitable woes more serious than those whom it was set up to treat swiftly and expeditiously."
"When, for example, the absorption of bitters was prescribed, it was not simply a question of physical treatment, as the soul as well as the body was to be scoured."
"The support is the body without organs."
"But before madness was brought under control towards the mid seventeenth century, and before ancient rituals were resuscitated in its honour, it was linked obstinately to many of the major experiences of the Renaissance."
"If it did not do so, it could not enter into war with others (finite totalities), nor could it be violent."
"Bataille above all is not a new mystic."
"Now assuming that Freud here intends to speak only the language of full and present quantity, assuming, as at least appears to be the case, that he intends to situate his work within the simple opposition of quantity and quality (the latter being reserved for the pure transparency of a perception without memory), we find that the concept of breaching shows itself intolerant of this intention."
"To our way of thinking this might appear a confused concept, but it was sufficiently clear to the classical age to dictate a moral and police imperative to confine."
"But in fact medicine as a positive science could have no purchase on the ethical division that had given birth to all possible reason."
"The nature and distribution of property, the divisions between the different orders of the people, opinions, customs, the occupations of the majority of the population, the climate itself, diseases and all the other accidents of human life are in constant change."
"Thus, whatever the relation of the Greeks to hybris, and of Socrates to the original logos, it is in any event certain that classical reason, and medieval reason before it, bore a relation to Greek reason, and that it is within the milieu of this more or less immediately perceived heritage, which itself is more or less crossed with other traditional lines, that the adventure or misadventure of classical reason developed."
"Habit draws something new from repetition namely, difference (in the first instance understood as generality)."
"Afterwards it is too late."
"In itself, it was a silent thing: there was no place in the classical age for a literature of madness, in that there was no autonomous language for madness, and no possibility that it might express itself in a language that spoke its truth."
"With the result that schizophrenia pervades the entire capitalist field from one end to the other."
"So it is with difference in intensity, disparity in the phantasm, dissemblance in the form of time, the differential in thought."
"The profits were shared between the entrepreneur and the hospital."
"This latter, Claude LeviStrauss remarks about social models and Rousset about structural motifs in a literary work, escapes creative will and clear consciousness (p. xv)."
"It fol lows that Being, since it is always, in fact, determined as an existent and is nothing outside the existent, is always dissimulated."
"Why did the masses desire fascism was content to answer by invoking the ideological, the subjective, the irrational, the negative, and the inhibited"
"Effeminate, insufferable, vain, failing at everything he tries, the sick is preyed upon by the ghost of his maternal grandfather, who cruelly reproaches him."
"(In particular, formal investigations concerning manual or printed writing change their meaning according to whether the characteristics of the letters and the qualities of the words are in the service of a signifier, whose effects they express following exegetical rules; Or whether, on the contrary, they break through this wall so as to set flows in motion, and establish breaks that overflow or rupture the sign's conditions of identity, and that cause books within the book to flow and to disintegrate, entering into multiple configurations whose possibilities were already the object of the typographical exercises of Mallarme ialways passing underneath the signifier, filing through the wall: which again shows that the death of writing is infinite, so long as it arises and arrives from within.)"
"I for Paule Thevenin Unique fois au monde, parce qu'en raison d'un cvenement toujours que j'expliquerai, it"
"One example quoted was the case of a patient who believed himself to be dead, and who was genuinely dying by starving himself to death:"
"As these were traits commonly associated with the feminine body, as opposed to the dry, virile solidity of the male, the abuse of hot drinks could lead to a general feminisation of the human race: Not without reason, the reproach is made to the majority of men that they have softened and degenerated, taking on the habits and inclinations of women the only thing lacking is a physical resemblance."
"Importantly, some still suggested that the mad should be thrown in together with them."
": A drunken man might believe that he sees two candles where in fact there is only one."
"than the manner in which, at each moment of that history, dialectical problems, their mathematical expression and the simultaneous origin of their fields of solvability are interrelated."
"Tippett, Statistics New York: Oxford University Press, ."
"In one whole group of texts, the sovereign renunciation of recognition enjoins the erasure of the written text."
"A second characteristic flows from the first: since it is already difference in itself and comprises inequality as such, intensity affirms difference."
"and 'When?' which designate this (non) being where every affirmation is nourished."
"He has crossed over the limit, the schiz, which maintained the production of desire always at the margins of social production, tangential and always repelled."
"First, because mental medicine, for the first time in the history of Western science, was to take on almost complete autonomy."
"speaking Because it is made up of words that name, part by part, what is given to representation."
"There the secret is still fully secret and contradiction contradicts itself, for at the heart of its all surpassing comprehension is this wisdom that seems vertiginous folly: 'Lord, thy counsels are as a great deep.'"
"The great Other as the nonhuman sex gives way, in representation, to a signifier of the great Other as an always missing term, the all too human sex, the phallus of molar castration."
"As Klossowski says, it is the secret coherence which establishes itself only by excluding my own coherence, my own identity, the identity of the self, the world and God."
"For Joseph Lieutaud, a melancholy that lasts a long time, exhausts itself and turns into delirium, loses its traditional symptoms and takes on a strange resemblance to mania: '"
"The animal realm has moved out of range of alldomesticating human symbolism, and while it fascinates mankind with its disorder, its fury and its plethora of monstrous impossibilities, it also serves to reveal the dark rage and sterile folly that lurks in the heart of mankind."
"Second, as the brain weighed less in diseases of exhaustion like consumption, as did the cerebellum in sicknesses where the humours and fluids flowed into the body, the density of those organs should be attributed 'to the fullness of the little canals to be found there'."
"Freedom must go through the putting at stake of life (Daransetzen des Lebens)."
"Does not infinitely other primarily signify that which does not come to an end, despite my interminable labor and experience?"
"No sooner has Descartes said that the senses cannot be trusted, than a voice protests, that of a peasant who is a stranger to any philosophical urbanity; in his simple manner, he would like to breach or at least to limit the thinker's resolve: '"
"Distinctions must be made: the repressing representation which performs the repression; the repressed representative, on which the repression actually comes to bear; the displaced represented, which gives a falsified apparent image that is meant to trap desire."
"After an inner struggle that went on for several hours, the first idea carried the day, and he decided to eat the food."
"Rather a society of neurotics than one successful schizophrenic who has not been made autistic."
"Capital has taken upon itself the relations of alliance and filiation."
"The economy of truth."
"To turn the Cartesian exclusion into inclusion; to exclude the one who excludes by giving his discourse the status of an objection; to exclude the exclusion by rejecting it into pre philosophical naivety: Derrida needed all of that to master the Cartesian text, and to reduce to nothing the question of madness."
"Locked in the ship from which he could not escape, the madman was handed over to the thousand armed river, to the sea where all paths cross, and the great uncertainty that surrounds all things."
"Some of them believe that they are beasts, of which they take on the voice and the gesture."
"And we are interested, first of all, in the difference between lordship and sovereignty."
"Number and magnitude can always be assigned by means of a count or a measure; they can therefore be expressed in quantitative terms."
"Diaschisis and diaspasis, as Monakow put it: either a lesion spreads along fibers that link it to other regions and thus gives rise at a distance to phenomena that are incomprehensible from a purely mechanistic (but not a machinic) point of view; or else a humoral disturbance brings on a shift in nervous energy and creates broken, fragmented paths within the sphere of instincts."
"It is indeed true that differenciation is progressive and serial: the characteristics of the major types appear before those of genus and species in the order of the determination of species; and in the order of organisation, this shoot is the beginning of a paw before it becomes a right or left paw."
"the phallic signifier La realite du desir (see reference note. ))"
"The lord is the man who has had the strength to endure the anguish of death and to maintain the work of death."
"The truth is that sexuality is everywhere: the way a bureaucrat fondles his records, a judge administers justice, a businessman causes money to circulate; the way the bourgeoisie fucks the proletariat; and so on."
"No, provided that we clarify the difficult and equivocal meaning of this notion."
"The musical model chosen by Levi Strauss for the composition of his book is apparently justified by this absence of any real and fixed center of the mythical or mythological discourse."
"It seems impossible to escape a mad becoming or an unlimited becoming which implies the identity of opposites in the form of the coexistence of more and less with a given quality."
"Soon the discomfort that quickly resulted from the painful weight was enough to convince the patient that he did indeed have a head."
"Even if madness was wiser than science, it would still find itself obliged to bow down before wisdom itself, the condition of its being."
"Cabanis, Du degre de certitude de la medecine rd edn., Paris,."
"For myth and tragedy are systems of symbolic representations that still refer desire to determinate exterior conditions as well as to particular objective codes the body of the Earth, the despotic body and that in this way confound the discovery of the abstract or subjective essence."
"losing himself in a collective representation, in a common ideal."
"Here again, is it a death desire?"
"In a sense, the condition in which would see would be to get out of, to as such, in its totality."
"The two characteristics of the concept of being having no more than a distributive common sense and having a hierarchical primary sense show clearly that being does not have, in relation to the categories, the role of a genus in relation to univocal species."
"Let us not slander human nature."
"The problem of monetary substance is that of the nature of the standard, of the price relation between the various metals employed, and of the distortion between the weights of coins and their nominal values."
"Molecular desiring production would regain its liberty to master in its turn the molar aggregate under an overturned form of power or sovereignty."
"A money reform, a banking custom, a trade practice can all be rationalized, can all develop, maintain themselves or disappear according to appropriate forms; they are all based upon a certain ground of knowledge: an obscure knowledge that does not manifest itself for its own sake in a discourse, but whose necessities are exactly the same as for abstract theories or speculations without apparent relation to reality."
"We have not stopped at any word; the chain rests on nothing; none of the concepts satisfies the demand, all are determined by each other and, at the same time, destroy or neutralize each other."
"The project for new regulations that followed the Rapport adress au partment de Paris proposed that the main ideas developed in Cabanis' text be applied in detail:"
"Harold Rosenberg illuminates this point in some fine pages: historical actors or agents can create only on condition that they identify themselves with figures from the past."
"It is easy to list the principal modes of absorption of surplus value outside the spheres of consumption and investment: advertising, civil government, militarism, and imperialism."
"It is the Fold, Zwiefalt."
"Because it has become infinite in order to include difference within itself, however, it represents groundlessness as a completely undifferenciated abyss, a universal lack of difference, an indifferent black nothingness."
"Nothing is exempt from the game: consequences are not subtracted from chance by connecting them with a hypothetical necessity which would tie them to a determinate fragment; on the contrary, they are adequate to the whole of chance, which retains and subdivides all possible consequences."
"But this terrible mother, the sphinx, is herself part of Oedipus; her nondifferentiation is merely the reverse of the exclusive differentiations created by Oedipus, she is herself created by Oedipus: Oedipus necessarily operates in the form of this double impasse."
"Sovereignty be distinguished from sovereign affirmation, this atheology does not, dissolves the values of meaning, truth and a grasp of the thing itself."
"For in question here is a departure from the world toward a place which is neither a non place nor an other world, neither a utopia nor an alibi, the creation of a universe to be added to the universe, according to an expression of Focillon's cited by Rousset (Forme et Signification,."
"The root was an expressive nucleus transformable to infinity from the startingpoint of one original sound."
"Toward other words, other objects, of course, which announce sovereignty."
"Madness was liberated long before Pinel, not from the material constraints that had kept it in prisons, but from a more decisive, more constricting form of servitude that had kept it under the control of that dark power."
"It is true that people were often confined so that they might escape judgement, but they were confined to a world where all was a matter of evil and punishment, libertinage and immorality, penitence and correction."
"To each of the sciences of man it offers a background, which establishes it and provides it with a fixed ground and, as it were, a homeland; it determines the cultural area the chronological and geographical boundaries in which that branch of knowledge can be recognized as having validity; but it also surrounds the sciences of man with a frontier that limits them and destroys, from the outset, their claim to validity within the element of universality."
"Being 'treated like the other insane' did not mean undergoing medical treatment, it meant following the corrective regime, doing the same exercises, and following the rules laid down in its pedagogy."
"The dreamthoughts and the dream content (the latent and manifest) are presented to us like two versions (mises en scene) of the same subjectmatter in two different languages."
"As Leach says apropos of the sex/hair relationship, displaced phallic symbolism is very common, but the phallic origin of the symbolism is not repressed."
"Levinas never formulates it: it is, as recognized by the Schoolmen, the ambiguity of the notion of substance as concerns God and his creatures (cff for example, Principes, I, sec."
"Almost all of them had cells where prisoners could be detained, and quartiers de force, where inmates were imprisoned at the expense of either the king or their family: 'No one, on any pretext whatsoever, is to be allowed into the detainment areas of these religious Charitable hospitals, other than those sent there on the orders of the King or judicial authority.'"
"Although the silence of madness is the absence of a work, this silence is not simply the work's epigraph, nor is it, as concerns language and meaning, outside the work."
"Slowly, and in a still disparate style, the eighteenth century put in place a whole new order of concepts around this consciousness of madness and its menacing increase."
"And it is shown, still in the form of negative theology; that this nudity is not even an opening, for an opening is relative to a surrounding plenitude."
"But everything is objective or subjective, as one wishes."
"There would thus be a discipline that could cover in a single movement both the dimension of ethnology that relates the human sciences to the positivities in which they are framed and the dimension of psychoanalysis that relates the knowledge of man to the finitude that gives it its foundation."
"(it is on the earth that desire becomes bound to Its own repression)."
"In this theatrical treatment of dreams, poetry and science must expression of thought in words but to include the speech of gesture henceforth be identical. ."
"And so, under the powerful influence of Christian thought, the great peril faced by the fifteenth century was kept at bay."
"It is indeed true that this Death, and this Desire, and this Law can never meet within the knowledge that traverses in its positivity the empiricaldomain of man; but the reason for this is that they designate the conditions of possibility of all knowledge about man."
"In order to resist organ machines, the body without organs presents its smooth, slippery, opaque, taut surface as a barrier."
"The blocks subsist, but have become encasted and embedded bricks, having only a controlled mobility."
"Despite their differences, these threedomains existed in the Classical age only in so far as the fundamental area of the ordered table was established between the calculation of equalities and the genesis of representations."
"Henceforth, so that God may indeed be, as Jabes says, an interrogation of God, would we not have to transform a final affirmation into a question?"
"Tissot, 'M noire pour la construction d'un hopital clinique',"
"They were no longer the justification or the spiritual form of wealth; they were just its precious matter."
"Every time such a schema is tested it fails for several reasons."
"all kinds of events, 'the how and the circumstances', from which propositions draw their sense."
"Problems, therefore, continue to be traced from the corresponding propositions, and to be evaluated according to the possibility of their finding a solution."
"Suddenly, the mad were once more locked up in the way that they had been during the Renaissance."
"As a result, the spontaneity of which I am conscious in the"
"This text of the glance is also the text of speech."
"It is at least as old as the Sophists."
"The repulsion of these machines, as found in the paranoiac machine of primary repression, gave way to an attraction in the rniraculating machine."
"In other words, has what Descartes said and meant been clearly perceived?"
"This question, as we have seen, runs through thought from the early nineteenth century:"
"The list of categories may well be 'opened up' or representation may be made infinite; nevertheless, being continues to be said in several senses according to the categories, and that of which it is said is determined only by differences 'in general'."
"Active synthesis is defined by the test of reality in an 'objectal' relation, and it is precisely according to the reality principle that the Ego tends to 'be activated', to be actively unified, to unite all its small composing and contemplative passive egos, and to be topologically distinguished from the Id."
"Language possesses a symbolic function; but since the disaster at Babel we must no longer seek for it with rare exceptio in the words themselves but rather in the very existence of language, in its total relation to the totality of the world, in the intersecting of its space with the loci and forms of the cosmos."
"Systematic truth includes the moment of the test."
"The second is a qualitative aptitude for conflict, which means that the quantity of libido does not branch into two variable forces corresponding to heterosexuality and homosexuality, but creates in most people irreducible oppositions between the two forces."
"For what is the schizo, if not first of all the one who can no longer bear all that money, the stock market, the death furces, Nijinsky said values, morals, homelands, religions, and private arti tudes?"
"From this point of view, death may well be inevitable, but every death is none the less accidental and violent, and always comes from without."
"They are painting a picture', says Bichat of the anatomists, 'rather than learning things."
"Ancient atomism not only multiplied Parmenidean being, it also conceived of Ideas as multiplicities of atoms, atoms being the objective elements of thought."
"Which comes first from the viewpoint of the libido, the familial investment or the social investment?"
"This Combray in itself is defined by its own essential difference, that 'qualitative difference' which, according to Proust, does not exist 'on the surface of the earth', but only at a particular depth."
"But in effect, Oedipus begins in the mind of the father."
"After and throughout the period of recession that followed, the practice of confinement began to fall into decline; and rather than attempting to resolve the crisis by a persistent recourse to confinement, efforts were made to try and limit it instead."
"Mania' (Willis' translator into English simply used the term 'madness' here) is a form of frenzy without fever."
"Nevertheless, the dogmatic image does not ignore the fact that thought has other misadventures besides error: humiliations more difficult to overcome, negatives much more difficult to unravel."
"But here and now (in a present in general), this horizon cannot be stated, an end cannot be stated, eschatology is not possible, except through violence."
"Imbecility too held mortal dangers, but of a different form: imbeciles were unable to ensure their own survival, and were therefore not responsible for their lives."
"Languages are no longer contrasted in accordance with what their words designate, but in accordance with the means whereby those words are linked together; from now on they will communicate, not via the intermediary of that anonymous and general thought they exist to represent, but directly from one to the other, thanks to these delicate instruments, so fragile in appearance yet so constant and so irreducible, by which words are arranged in relation to each other."
"It also fell to this search for positive elements to unshackle sickness from its invisible and secret associations."
"Consequently, everything is played out from the start: everywhere we encounter the analytic process that consists in extrapolating a transcendent and common something, but that is a common universal for the sole purpose of introducing lack into desire, in situating and specifying persons and an ego under one aspect or another of its absence, and imposing an exclusive direction on the disjunction of the sexes."
"The more easily penetrable the interior space is, the more frequent hysteria will be and multiple its aspects."
"With Nietzsche, it is a theatre of unbelief, of movement as Physis, already a theatre of cruelty."
"In the tragedies of the early seventeenth century, madness too provided the nouement, but it did so in liberating the truth."
"In the methods, on the other hand, since resemblances in their massive and clearly evident form are posited to start with, the continuity of nature will not be this purely negative postulate (no blank spaces between distinct categories), but a positive requirement: all nature forms one great fabric in which beings resemble one another from one to the next, in which adjacent individuals are infinitely similar to each other; so that any dividing line that indicates, not the minute difference of the individual, but broader categories, is always unreal."
"One is conjectural, the other categorical."
"Crollius, Trait des signatures ("
"In effect, we have seen how the existence and distribution of singular points belongs entirely to the Idea, even though their specification was immanent in the solution curves of their neighbouring regions or, in other words, in the real relations in which the Idea is incarnated."
"It was now replaced by open, infinitely extendable tables."
"And it's a sure thing that structure affords us no means for escaping familialism; on the contrary, it adds another turn, it attributes a universal metaphoric value to the family at the very moment it has lost its objective literal values."
"Let those who urge thought to leave its retreat and to formulate its choices talk on; and let those who seek, without any pledge and in the absence of virtue, to establish a morality do as they wish."
"For there is indeed a break that changes everything in the world of representation, between this writing in the narrow sense and writing in the broad sense that is, between two completely different orders of inscription: a graphisrn that leaves the voicedominant by being independent of the voice while connecting with it, and a graphism thatdominates or supplants the voice by depending on it in various ways and by subordinating itself to the voice."
"In the mode ,o.r the limit, or of strangeness, or of the unbearable, will have joined again with the ser mty ,of the posrtrve."
"A new system of education must be adopted to give a fresh course to their ideas."
"Difficult not to recognise there two exercises that are at once parallel and different: the exercise of the demens and that of the dormiens."
"the genesis of the act of thought, the operation of the faculties."
"Another flight of language into arbitrariness and irresponsibility?"
"And if one were to ask when it all started to go bad, how far back must we go for an answer, back to Lenin, back to Marx?"
"Rather than being freed from his responsibility, he was made to feel guilty by association and kinship with other bearers of guilt: he became the Other, the Outsider, the Excluded."
"But then it diversifies into so many 'characters', and nosography takes on the appearance, or very nearly, of a gallery of 'moral portraits'."
"This structure emerges more completely in the work of Morgagni and Cullen."
"But there was a special provision for the latter: For the three month period that follows the publication of this decree, under the responsibility of our procurators, people detained for insanity will be questioned by our judges in the usual manner, and in accordance with their decisions, visited by physicians who, under the eye of district directors, will pronounce on the true state of these patients, so that sentence may be passed on them, and they will accordingly either be set free or treated in hospitals to be designated precisely for that purpose."
"And that the Physiocrats, on the other hand, believed only in agricultural production, and claimed that its remuneration should be higher; that, being landowners, they attributed a natural basis to ground rent, and that, since they were claiming political power, they wanted to be the only ones subject to taxation, and thus in exclusive enjoyment of the rights taxation conferred."
"That is why capitalism and its break are defined not solely by decoded flows, but by the generalized decoding of flows, the new massive deterritorialization, the conjunction of deterritorialized flows."
"It does not suffice to risk death if the putting at stake is not permitted to take off, as chance or accident, but is rather invested as the work of the negative."
"Incest derives from this investment and not the reverse."
"It was thought, very justly, that the indiscriminate mixture, which must occur in large public establishments, of persons of opposite religious sentiments and practices; of the profligate and the virtuous; the profane and the serious; was calculated to check the progress of returning reason, and to fix, still deeper, the melancholy and misanthropic train of ideas."
"Speaking of a young dog, the author noted that: Everyone insists that the dog is blind, deaf, dumb, and has no sense of smell, either since birth or as the result of an accident shortly after, so that he is in a vegetative state, and might well be regarded as being half way between an animal and a plant."
"Every logical limitation of the comprehension of a concept endows it with an extension greater than in principle infinite, and thus of a generality such that no existing individual can correspond to it hic et nunc (rule of the inverse relation of comprehension and extension)."
"Everybody wants to be a fascist."
"And they will no doubt be surprised that we were able to recognise such a strange kinship between that which, for so long, was feared as a cry, and that which, for so long, was awaited like a song."
"Finally, when it is a matter of linking the representation of some object of need to all the others that can confront it in the act of exchange, it is necessary to have recourse to the form and quantity of a piece of work, which determine its value; what creates a hierarchy among things in the continuous circulation of the market is not other objects or other needs; it is the activity that has produced them and has silently lodged itself within them; it is the days and hours required for their manufacture, extraction, or transportation that constitute their proper weight, their marketable solidity, their internal law, and thus what one can call their real price; it is on the basis of this essential nucleus that exchanges can be accomplished and that market prices, after having <U+FB02>uctuated, can find their point of rest."
"For this reason, it always seemed to us that the circles were unravelled in a third synthesis, where the ground was abolished in a groundlessness, the Ideas were separated from the forms of memory, and the displacement and disguise of repetition engaged divergence and decentring, the powers of difference."
"The sense of touch is very narrowly limited to the designation of a few fairly evident distinctions (such as that between smooth and rough); which leaves sight with an almost exclusive privilege, being the sense by which we perceive extent and establish proof, and, in consequence, the means to an analysis partes extra partes acceptable to everyone: the blind man in the eighteenth century can perfectly well be a geometrician, but he cannot be a naturalist."
"Like the first section of the Note, his gesture at this point is extremely Platonic."
"We seem to be straying from the main concern of psychoanalysis, yet never have we been so close."
"Bichat, Anatomie gr nerale, vol."
"If we attempt to reconstitute problems in the image of or as resembling conscious propositions, then the illusion takes shape, the shadow awakens and appears to acquire a life of its own: it is as though each affirmation referred to its negative, or has 'sense' only by virtue of its negation, while at the same time a generalised negation, an ouk on, takes the place of the problem and its me on."
"The fact remains that the schiz came into existence only by means of a desire without aim or cause that charted it and sided with it."
"As Leach says, hair as a partial object or as a separable part of the body does not represent an aggressive and separate phallus; hair is a thing in its own right, a material part in an aggressing apparatus, in a separating machine."
"That is why it remains subject to the condition of the convergence of series in the case of Leibniz and to the condition of the monocentring of circles in the case of Hegel."
"Necessarily, since this repetition is not hidden by something else but forms itself by disguising itself; it does not pre exist its own disguises and, in forming itself, constitutes the bare repetition within which it becomes enveloped."
"And the consecutive sequences will be swamped by a large number of subsequent observations (see.,."
"The genus is thus itself and the species, the whole is itself and the part."
"The libido sciendi, strengthened by the prohibition that it had aroused and discovered, circumvents it by making it more imperious; it provides it with scientific and social justifications, inscribing it within necessity in order to pretend the more easily to efface it from the ethical, and to build upon it the structure that traverses it and maintains it."
"(It goes without saying that we are not construing the linguistic phenomenon as a cause or a symptom:"
"If the first passive synthesis concerns the present, the second concerns the past."
"The two 'significations' are already repetitive, but the signified itself is pure repetition."
"The entire essence of language is concentrated in that singular word."
"Obviously, that consciousness is never made explicit in the literature of confinement and its justifications."
"And the only proofs he gives himself are the glittering re<U+FB02>ections of resemblances."
"That science is Traumdeutung, also known as oneirocriticism."
"On the eve of the Revolution, two series of projects found themselves in opposition."
"Robert James' Dictionary, published in England in contains an article on Mania, proposing a compared aetiology of mania and melancholy: That the brain, therefore, is the seat of all Disorders of this kind, is sufficiently obvious; for the mind is the most noble part of Body, which, tho in a manner inconceivable by us, the wise and bountiful parent of mankind Species has made the common Receptacle or Repository of the Soul, the Genius, the Fancy, the Memory, and the external Senses"
"Intensity is the uncancellable in difference of quantity, but this difference of quantity is cancelled by extension, extension being precisely the process by which intensive difference is turned inside out and distributed in such a way as to be dispelled, compensated, equalised and suppressed in the extensity which it creates."
"Repetition is constituted not from one present to another, but between the two coexistent series that these presents form in function of the virtual object (object x)."
"These two ways by which language establishes a relation with itself were now to enter into a rivalry from which we have not yet emerged and which may even be sharpening as time passes."
"As Descartes says of the piece of wax: 'It is of course the same wax which I see, which I touch, which I picture in my imagination, in short the same wax which I thought it to be from the start.'"
"Each chooses his pitch or his tone, perhaps even his lyrics, but the tune remains the same, and underneath all the lyrics the same tra la la, in all possible tones and all pitches."
"If opium is efficacious, it owes that property to the extent that it has brought well being from the outset."
"The meaning is not attached to the signified to which each of the enunciated signifiers refers, but is constituted by process, suture, the concatenation of bound elements."
"What is to be determined is not the pathological or police category that was targeted, which would be to suppose that alienation pre existed exclusion, but to understand instead how the gesture was accomplished, ie the operations which together, in their equilibrium, composed its totality, and the diverse horizons from which those who suffered the same exclusion originated, to investigate how men of the classical age experienced themselves at the moment when familiar faces began to become strange, and lose their resemblance with that image."
"At Padua, a number of hospital beds were devoted to clinical medicine, with Knips as professor; Tissot, who was appointed to set up a clinic at Pavia, explained the broad outlines of his plans in his inaugural lecture on November About Lacassaigne, Bourru, Guilbert, and Colombier had wanted to organize privately and at their own expense a small, twelve bed hospital for acute cases, in which the doctors would combine the teaching of practical medicine with the treatment of the patients; but the project failed."
"includes various intensities, while remaining essentially the same white."
"The criteria that distinguish classes, castes, and ranks must not be sought in a fixity or a permeability, nor in a relative closing or opening; these criteria always reveal themselves to be deceptive, eminently misleading."
"Hence when we posited the socius as the analogue of a full body without organs, there was nonetheless one important difference."
"For others, by contrast, the heat that rose up from the hypochondrium was quite dry, and hypochondriacal melancholy was a 'hot and dry' sickness caused by 'humours of the same quality'."
"It is not as a feeble, less good, insufficient, insufficiently 'revealing',"
"Is it not true that the only dead who return are those whom one has buried too quickly and too deeply, without paying them the necessary respects, and that remorse testifies less to an excess of memory than to a powerlessness or to a failure in the working through of a memory?"
"but the name of Marx is sufficient to save it from this danger."
"Levinas openly acknowledges this."
"It is necessarily a non sense to the extent that this proposition purports to state both itself and its sense."
"It is undoubtedly of the greatest importance to know those tools, to be able to practise those formalizations and to define the levels upon which they can be performed; it is no doubt of interest historically to know how Condorcet was able to apply the calculation of probabilities to politics, how Fechner defined the logarithmic relation between the growth of sensation and that of excitation, how contemporary psychologists make use of information theory in order to understand the phenomena of learning."
"'What must be retained here is that from this point of view, the sleeper or the dreamer is more mad than the madman.'"
"Listen to the great paranoiac din beneath the discourse of reason that speaks for others, in the name of the silent majority."
"That sentence is not there for stylistic effect: it is neither 'rhetorical' nor 'pedagogical'."
"But that individuality was neither stable nor immobile, and was undone and reorganised to a certain degree in the course of the Renaissance."
"(Translators' notes blocks or flying bricks."
"The diseased arachnoid becomes much whiter, and is covered with a viscous exudation; it alone can contract dropsy.'"
"For these evolutions are linked with revolutions in the whole solar system that were arranged by God in advance.'"
"Moreover, it is an error in economics to base assistance on an immobilization of capital that is to say, on an impoverishment of the nation, which, in turn, brings with it the need for new foundations; hence, at worst, a stifling of activity."
"sur I'encephale (Paris, Bouillaud,"
"But these values would only be recognised in the nineteenth century, precisely when the problematic as defined by Voltaire would be accepted as self evident."
"It is a question, in the absence of any previous structure, of adomain in which truth teaches itself, and, in exactly the same way, offers itself to the gaze of both the experienced observer and the naive apprentice; for both, there is only one language: the hospital, in which the series of patients examined is itself a school."
"We must not see the constitution of natural history, with the empirical climate in which it develops, as an experiment forcing entry, willy nilly, into a knowledge that was keeping watch on the truth of nature elsewhere;"
"These two types of measures, which covered two different experiences that until this point had been considered to be heterogeneous, were now superimposed, although they did not yet blend into one another."
"In its universal function it expresses not simply that other quality but a pure element of qualitability."
"No doubt Bergson's example is not the same as Hume's."
"This gaze could no longer see without seeing itself."
"In the third case, because the concept of freedom remains unconscious while memories and representations remain repressed."
"The rest of the Project will depend in its entirety upon an incessant and increasingly radical invocation of the principle of difference."
"He has a passion for mechanics."
"But it is not genetic description in general which is disqualified, but only the genetic description which borrows its schemas from naturalism and causalism, and depends upon a science of facts and therefore on an empiricism; and therefore, concludes Husserl, depends upon a relativism incapable of insuring its own truth; therefore, on a skepticism."
"Such is always the case with Freud."
"(We rediscover the two aspects in guy's doubling of Joan of Arc and Gervaise.)"
"For Kant, the imagination was already in itself an art, was art itself, which originally did not distinguish between truth and beauty; and despite all the differences, Kant speaks of the same imagination in the Critique of Pure Reason and the Critique of judgment as does Rousset."
"Rousseau, Essai sur l'origine des langues, pp."
"The force of the work, the force of genius, the force, too, of that which engenders in general is precisely that which resists geometrical metaphorization and is the proper object of literary criticism."
"Now, ethnology like any science comes about within the elem ent of discourse."
"The second time, after a further crisis, the convalescent Zarathustra smiles indulgently at his animals, knowing that his destiny will be decided only in an unsaid third time (that announced at the end: '"
"Theory must therefore be conceived as a toolbox, producing tools that work; or as Ivan Illich says, we must learn to construct tools for conviviality through the use of counterfoil research."
"The threat of madness took its place once more among the most pressing matters of the century."
"By contrast with the actual infinite, where the concept is sufficient by right to distinguish its object from every other object, in this case the concept can pursue its comprehension indefinitely, always subsuming a plurality of objects which is itself indefinite."
"In effect, the identity of the concept does not yet give us a concrete rule of determination, since it appears only as the identity of an indeterminate concept; Being or I am (that 'I am' which Kant said was the perception or the feeling of an existence independently of any determination)."
"One didn't know how to handle it (mentally or physically)."
"There is plague, cholera smallpox only because dance and consequently theater have not yet begun to exist ."
"first, the paranoiac schizoid trait of the law (metonymy) according to which the law governs nontotalizable and nontotalized parts, partitioning them off, organizing them as bricks, measuring their distance and forbidding their communication, henceforth acting in the name of a formidable but formal and empty Unity, eminent, distributive, and not colIective; and second, the maniacal depressive trait (metaphor) according to which the law reveals nothing and has no knowable object, the verdict having no existence prior to the penalty, and the statement of the law having no existence prior to the verdict."
"The skilled hand is suspended in mid air, arrested in rapt attention on the painter's gaze; and the gaze, in return, waits upon the arrested gesture."
"On the one hand, an active synthesis is established upon the foundation of the passive syntheses: this consists in relating the bound excitation to an object supposed to be both real and the end of our actions (synthesis of recognition, supported by the passive synthesis of reproduction)."
"The institution of the family traced the circle of reason, and outside it lurked all the perils of insanity, where man might fall prey to unreason in all its fury. '"
"Perhaps one day one will no longer know clearly what madness really was."
"Both groups hold at least one thing in common; they subscribe to the same puerile and reactionary conception of schizophrenia, and the same marketable neurotic conception of literature."
"But and this is the fourth point the exchangist conception finds it necessary to postulate a closed system, statistically closed, and to shore up the structure with a psychological conviction confidence that the cycle will reclose."
"They never cease to exercise a critical examination of themselves."
"the truth that appears as illusions are dissipated, and as history establishes a disalienated status for itself; but there must also exist a truth that is of the order of discourse a truth that makes it possible to employ, when dealing with the nature or history of knowledge, a language that will be true."
"Why does it make the schizophrenic into a sick personnot only nominally"
"(In saying hieroglyphics, Artaud is thinking only of the principle of the writing called hieroglyphic, which, as we know, did not in fact set aside all phoneticism.)"
"Kant himself is more Platonic than he thinks when he passes from the Critique of Pure Reason, entirely subordinated to the hypothetical form of possible experience, to the Critique of Practical Reason in which, with the aid of problems, he discovers the pure necessity of a categorical principle."
"There, beneath the eye of the hospital doctor, diseases would be grouped into orders, genera, and species, in a rationalizeddomain that would restore the original distribution of essences."
"If books were the dissipation of Being?"
", if the name of God was but the movement of erasure of the trace in presence?"
"The moment when sodomites were being burnt for the last time was also the moment when 'erudite libertinage', and a whole culture of lyrical homosexuality that the Renaissance had tolerated unquestioningly, began to disappear."
"In the first place, representation provides no direct and positive criteria for distinguishing between repetition and the order of generality, resemblance or equivalence."
"When the identity of things dissolves, being escapes to attain univocity, and begins to revolve around the different."
"All these elements were present in Freud, a fantastic Christopher Columbus, a brilliant bourgeois reader of Goethe, Shakespeare, and Sophocles, a masked Al Capone."
"The clinical training consisted of two parts: `The professor would pause at the bedside of each patient long enough to question him and examine him properly; he would draw the students' attention to the diagnostic signs and the important symptoms of the disease'; then, in the lecture hall, the professor would take up the general history of the illnesses observed in the hospital ward, and he would point out their `known, probable, and hidden' causes, make a prognosis, and provide `vital', `curative', or `palliative' indications.'"
"At the beginning of the nineteenth century, they rediscovered their ancient, enigmatic density; though not in order to restore the curve of the world which had harboured them during the Renaissance, nor in order to mingle with things in a circular system of signs."
"We think that difference of intensity, as this is implicated in the egg, expresses first the differential relations or virtual matter to be organised."
"Through this play of antipathy, which disperses them, yet draws them with equal force into mutual combat, makes them into murderers and then exposes them to death in their turn, things and animals and all the forms of the world remain what they are."
"Gresham, Avis de Sir Thomas Gresham"
"The timelessness of the unconscious is no doubt determined only in opposition to a common concept of time, a traditional concept, the metaphysical concept: the time of mechanics or the time of consciousness."
": it is to be found in the transformations performed by magicians."
"This situation (in one sense minor, in another sense privileged) places them in relation to all the other forms of knowledge: they have the more or less deferred, but constant, aim of giving themselves, or in any case of utilizing, at one level or another, a mathematical formalization; they proceed in accordance with models or concepts borrowed from biology, economics, and the sciences of language; and they address themselves to that mode of being of man which philosophy is attempting to conceive at the level of radical finitude, whereas their aim is to traverse all its empirical manifestations."
"Epicurean atoms would be one: individuals localised in space, they nevertheless have a meagre comprehension, which is made up for in discrete extension, to the point where there exists an infinity of atoms of the same shape and size."
"The schizo knows how to leave: he has made departure into something as simple as being born or dying."
"They were to be given 'beds and passable food'."
"Its complete name will cross the entire network of characters that one has established, right up to the largest classifications of all."
"But it appears that pure disparates formed either the celestial beyond of a divine understanding inaccessible to our representative thought, or the infernal and unfathomable for us below of an Ocean of dissemblance."
"In Brant wrote the Narrenschiff, and five years later it was translated into Latin."
"Or should the question be framed in a different way?"
"Group fantasy is plugged into and machined on the socius."
"The momentary loss of their senses, and the tears that they shed at a performance of one of our modern tragedies are the least of the accidents that may then befall them."
"The world of confinement was home to a strange parade."
"Cardan, toposcopie edn., pp."
"However, we must distinguish between these discrete elements, these repeated objects, and a secret subject, the real subject of repetition, which repeats itself through them."
"If I play the madman, I will be no less demens than they are, no less disqualified than they are, no less external to any legitimacy of action or speech than they are."
"As we have seen, the liberal economy tended to place the onus on the family rather than the State when it came to assistance to the poor and the sick, so that the family became the place of social responsibility."
"The marvellous logic of the mad seems to mock that of the logicians, as it shadows it so closely, or rather because it is exactly the same, and at the heart of madness, at the basis of so many errors, absurdities, aimless words and gestures, what is sometimes to be found is the deeply buried perfection of a discourse. '"
"Dreams, like the imaginings of painters, can represent 'Sirens and Satyrs, by strange, extraordinary, shapes', but of their own accord, they can never create 'simpler or more universal things' that make fantastical images possible: 'corporeal nature, and its extension, are of this class of things'."
"In relation to it, genuine slips are also made: we betray it without realising it, we reveal it by resisting it, and we allow it to appear in a language that only a philosopher is in a position to decode."
"The reduction of stupidity, malevolence and madness to the single figure of error must therefore be understood to occur in principle whence the hybrid character of this weak concept which would not have a place within pure thought if thought were not diverted from without, and would not be occasioned by this outside if the outside were not within pure thought."
"This latter is a slipping movement common to attention, to signs, and to words."
"Moreover, if an organism may be regarded as a microscopic being, how much more is this true of the Other in psychic systems."
"And through this perforation, this hole, I escape myself."
"They are the development of the erroneous sense which betrays both the nature of difference and that of repetition."
"The difference between the paintings of this man and those of others is that others usually portray man as he appears from the outside:"
"The center is the well."
"Good sense is by nature eschatological, the prophet of a final compensation and homogenization."
"Strictly speaking, psychic repression is a means in the service of social repression."
"form the object of investments in which the parents merely have a role as agents of a special production or I antiproduction, always grappling with other agents that they express all the less as they are increasingly at grips with them in the heaven and hell of the child."
"Like Bergson, we may well distinguish between two kinds of recognition that of the cow in the presence of grass, and that of a man summoning his memories: the second can serve no more than the first as a model for what it means to think."
"He means that what takes so long in coming to consciousness is the news that the death of God makes no difference to the unconscious."
"The madness of Artaud does not slip into the interstices in his œuvre: it is precisely the absence of an œuvre, the constantly repeated presence of that absence, the central void that is experienced and measured in its never ending dimensions."
"It will no doubt remain a decisive fact about our culture that its first scientific discourse concerning the individual had to pass through this stage of death."
"And it would still govern Plato's philosophy, according to Levinas, even unto its concept of femininity (conceived as matter in the categories of activity and passivity) and its concept of the city state which must imitate the world of ideas."
"To go to the end both of absolute rending and of the negative without measure, without reserve, is not progressively to pursue logic to the point at which, within discourse, the Aufhebung (discourse itself) makes logic collaborate with the constitution and interiorizing memory of meaning, with Erinnerung."
"In the second place, this transfiguration cannot be explained by the miraculating powers the machine possesses due to the inscription hidden inside it, though it in fact contains within itself the most impressive sort of inscriptions (d. the recording supplied by Edison for Eve future)."
"The decoding of flows and the deterritorialization of the socius thus constitutes the most characteristic and the most important tendency of capitalism."
"Under the skin the body is an over heated factory,/ and outside,!"
"And what is to be said of the difference drawn from the elementary repetition, except that it is, on the contrary, the most contracted degree of this total repetition?"
"On the contrary, capitalism is its offspring, its result."
"From the very beginning of the chapter on The DreamWork, we are left in no doubt on this subject, although Freud still uses the concept of translation on which he will later cast suspicion."
"Madness was no longer to speak of non being, but of the being of man, of the content of what he is, and the forgetting of that content."
"The absolute is not a being and will never be one, for there can be no being without a crime committed against myself, that is to say, without taking from."
"The key fact is that this transformation of the centres of confinement into asylums was not the result of a progressive introduction of medicine a sort of invasion coming from the outside but was the result of an internal restructuring of a space that the classical age had designated as a place of exclusion and correction."
"What he is writing is a history, and the recourse to events, in the last resort, is indispensable and determining, at least in principle."
"the relation of speech to language."
"A flow that lets itself be plugged by Oedipus; partial objects that let themselves be subsumed under the category of a complete object, even if absent the phallus of castration; breaks flows that let themselves be projected onto a mythical space; polyvocal chains that let themselves be biunivocalized, linearized, suspended from a signifier; an unconscious that lets itself be expressed; connective syntheses that let themselves be taken in a global and specific use; disjunctive syntheses that let themselves be taken in an exclusive, restrictive use; conjunctive syntheses that let themselves be taken in a personal and segregative use."
"But just as natural signs are linked to what they indicate by the profound relation of resemblance, so the discourse of the Ancients is in the image of what it expresses; if it has the value of a precious sign, that is because, from the depth of its being, and by means of the light that has never ceased to shine through it since its origin, it is adjusted to things themselves, it forms a mirror for them and emulates them; it is to eternal truth what signs are to the secrets of nature (it is the mark whereby the word may be deciphered); and it possesses an ageless affinity with the things that it unveils."
"So a dismal conjuration of dissection, an anatomical church militant and suffering, whose hidden spirit made the clinical possible before itself surfacing into the regular, authorized, diurnal practice of autopsy, was imagined out of nothing."
"The apparent exteriority of political censorship refers to an essential censorship which binds the writer to his own writing."
"` The symptoms allow the invariable form of the disease set hack somewhat, visible and invisible to show through."
"No one has ever died from contradictions."
"The distinction, so frequent in the eighteenth century and so mysterious to us today, between lunatics (les ali, 'the alienated') and the insane (les insens s), can probably be understood in these terms."
"The nineteenth century will speak obstinately of death: the savage, castrated death of Goya, the visible, muscular, sculptural death offered by Gericault, the voluptuous death by fire in Delacroix, the Lamartinian death of aquatic effusions, Baudelaire' death."
"Production is not recorded in the same way it is produced, however."
"It is the bad players who repeat only by fragmenting chance and dividing it among several throws."
"Between the brain and the soul, the relationship is the same as between the eye and sight, and from the soul to the brain the same as the project of walking to the legs that bend."
"Madness was always linked to society and its discontent. '"
"a feeling that no man can tolerate for any length of time, and which makes his surroundings ever dearer to him."
"Ordinary repetition is prolongation, continuation or that length of time which is stretched into duration: bare repetition (it can be discontinued, but remains fundamentally the repetition of the same)."
"In madness, the totality of body and soul is broken up."
"That is why orgiastic representation involves a duality which only increases its restlessness, or is even the real reason for it, and divides it into two kinds."
"It is thus simultaneously true that things come into existence and lose existence by being named."
"There is, therefore, a seventh postulate to add to the others: the postulate of responses and solutions according to which truth and falsehood only begin with solutions or only qualify responses."
"The fact that these latter do not possess the formal criteria of a scientific form of knowledge does not prevent them from belonging, nevertheless, to the positivedomain of knowledge."
"It has its own principles, which differ from language to language: grammatical composition has regularities which are not transparent to the signification of the discourse."
"But if this right is absolute, it is because it does not depend upon ate accident within history."
"Nor is autrui a proper noun, even though its anonym ity signifies but the unnamable source of every proper noun."
"Is it not more likely that Oedipus is a requirement or a consequence of social reproduction, insofar as this latter aims atdomesticating a genealogical form and content that are in every way intractable?"
"We defend so cautiously against our egoically limited experiences, states Laing in The Politics of Experience, that it is not surprising to see people grow defensive and panic at the idea of experiencing ego loss through the use of drugs or collective experiences."
"But we men discover all that is hidden in the mountains by signs and outward correspondences; and it is thus that we find out all the properties of herbs and all that is in stones."
"To the classical mind, madness could easily be the effect of an external 'milieu', or more exactly the stigmata of a certain solidarity with the world: just as the access to the truth of the world, after the fall, had to pass through the tortuous and often distorting medium of the senses, so the possession of reason depended to some extent on the 'physical state of the machine', and all the mechanical effects that might act upon it."
"Rationalism wanted to tie the fate of Ideas to abstract and dead essences; and to the extent that the problematic form of Ideas was recognised, it even wanted that form tied to the question of essences in other words, to the"
"In his Discours sur l'origine de l'in galit Rousseau made the point that no language can have an agreement between men as its basis, since such an agreement presupposes that some established, recognized, and practised language already exists; we would therefore have to imagine it as having been received by men, not built by them."
"The enlightened classes, the intellectual circles, who had returned to power or obtained it at last, wished to restore to knowledge the privileges that would be able to protect both the social order and individual lives."
"The Christian moralists sought out the traces of the flesh lodged deep within the soul."
"Doubtless these illusions would not take hold if they did not benefit from a coincidence and a support in the unconscious itself that ensures the hold."
"nor embrace it, I still formulate the project of doing so, and"
", that of non quantitative orders, that of a universal characterization, of a general taxinomia, of a non measurable mathesis, but an area made up of organic structures, that is, of internal relations between elements whose totality performs a function; it will show that these organic structures are discontinuous, that they do not, therefore, form a table of unbroken simultaneities, but that certain of them are on the same level whereas others form series or linear sequences."
"The word relate in this case does not designate a natural productive relationship, but rather a relation in the sense of a report or an account, an inscription within the over all process of inscription, within the Numen."
"Furnished by the husband's lineage, the calabash serves lilt!"
"It is true that qualities are signs which flash across the interval of a difference."
"The society of brothers rediscovers nothing of production and desiringIlll"
"Disease, in the least of its manifestations, will be invested with divine wisdom, and discernible on the surface of phenomena will be the providence of divine reason."
"Analysis, the philosophy of elements and their laws, meets its death in what it had vainly sought in mathematics, chemistry, and even language:"
"Conceptions of the negative come from our haste to understand need in relation to active syntheses, which in fact are elaborated only on this basis."
"Artaud puts it well: all writing is so much pig shit that is to say, any literature that takes itself as an end or sets ends for itself, instead of being a process that ploughs the crap of being and its language, transports the weak, the aphasiacs, the illiterate."
"with your eyes of no money with your eyes of starving India."
"It seems that nothing better could be imagined, for it is precisely that class of' women whose feelings of modesty are likely to be the least delicate'.'''"
"Dear Friends, What you took to be my works were only my waste matter."
"An entirely and conventionally topographical metaphor of the psychical apparatus is to be completed by invoking the existence of force and of two kinds of processes of excitation or modes of its discharge: So let us try to correct some conceptions intuitive illustrations: Anschauungen which might be misleading so long as we looked upon the two systems in the most literal and crudest sense as two localities in the mental apparatusconceptions which left their traces in the expressions 'to repress' and 'to force a way through.'"
"We saw how these systems were sites for the actualisation of Ideas."
"The very being of that which is represented is now going to fall outside representation itself."
"Partial objects are not representations of parental figures or of the basic patterns of family relations; they are parts of desiring machines, having to do with a process and with relations of production that are both irreducible and prior to anything that may be made to conform to the Oedipal figure."
"For at the far reaches of this night something was contrived, blindly, I mean in a discourse, by means of which philosophy, in completing itself, could both include within itself and anticipate all the figures of its beyond, all the forms and resources of its exterior; and could do so in order to keep these forms and resources close to itself by simply taking hold of their enunciation."
"The primitive socius covers itself in this manner with a network wherein one is continually jumping from words to things, and from bodies to appellations, according to the extensive requirements of the system in its length and its width."
"The function proper to knowledge is not seeing or demonstrating; it is interpreting."
"A form of social production and reproduction, along with its economic and financial mechanisms, its political formations, and so on, can be desired as such, in whole or in part, independently of the interests of the desiring subject."
"Against the walls of the triangle, toward the outside, flows exert the irresistible pressure of lava or the invincible oozing of water."
"The essence of the recording, inscribing socius, insofar as it lays claim to the productive forces and distributes the agents of production, resides in these operations: tattooing, excising, incising, carving, scarifying, mutilating, encircling, and initiating."
"The relation to the nonfamilial is always primary: in the form of sexuality of the field in social production, and the nonhuman sex in desiring production (gigantism and dwarfism)."
"What sort of thing is this breathing machine on my body without organs?"
"Or is this rather the sign that the problem must be raised in a completely different manner, because it is already raised elsewhere for the schizo himself, outside the family?"
"But in fact the search for a nature or a history of knowledge, in the movement by which the dimension proper to a critique is fitted over the contents of empirical knowledge, already presupposes the use of a certain critique a critique that is not the exercise of pure re<U+FB02>ection, but the result of a series of more or less obscure divisions."
"Madness had thus emigrated to the side of its keepers; those who locked up the mad like animals were now possessed by the animal brutality of insanity, and it was in them that the beast raged, while the beast that showed its face in the demented was no more than a cloudy reflection of that rage."
"The Same would never leave itself to be distributed across several 'equivalents' in cyclical alternation if difference were not displacing itself in these cycles and disguising itself in this same, rendering repetition imperative but offering only the bare to the eyes of the external observer who believes that the variants are not the essential and have little effect upon that which they nevertheless constitute from within."
"In fact, the language of action confirms this necessity and renders this hypothesis futile."
"Now, at its greatest depth and in its pure specificity the hyle is primarily temporal matter."
"There are disturbances brought about by intoxications of the system, by opiates, hemlock or mandragora; Bonet, after all, in his Sepulchretum, reported the case of a young girl who had lost her reason after being bitten by a bat."
"If, formerly, interiority, the secret and original separation, had permit red the break with the classical use of the Greek concepts of Same and Other, the amalgamation of Same and Ego"
"since it is only a relation to nonmeaning this order is reversed within it."
"One refers back to a single concept, which leaves only an external difference between the ordinary instances of a figure; the other is the repetition of an internal difference which it incorporates in each of its moments, and carries from one distinctive point to another."
"In high culture too Folly was at work, at the heart of reason and truth."
"all figure on the list."
"In order to represent prices, they themselves had to be precious."
"Here we have the great movement of decoding or deterritorialization: the nature of wealth is no longer to be sought on the side of the object, under exterior conditions, in the territorial or despotic machine."
"Grounded in the unity of the body and the soul, it turns against that union and calls it into question."
"That is why the final image is without optimism."
"Secondly, they are distinguished by the process of individualisation which determines that actualisation: in a physical system, this happens all at once, and affects only the boundaries, whereas a biological system receives successive waves of singularities and involves its whole internal milieu in the operations which take place at the outer limits."
"or of the schizophrenic takes over from the"
"The differences included within the I and the Self are, without doubt, borne by individuals:"
"In this sense, the mathematician Houel remarked that the shortest distance was not a Euclidean notion at all, but an Archimedean one, more physical than mathematical; that it was inseparable from a method of exhaustion, and that it served less to determine the straight line than to determine the length of a curve by means of the straight line 'integral calculus performed unknowingly'."
"To that end the directors will have the following at their disposal: gallows, iron collars, prisons and dungeons inside the pital ral and dependent buildings, which they may use as they see fit, without there being any recourse to appeal against the judgements they are to promulgate inside the hospital."
"it was not in their midst that bad conscience,"
"Note on the Three Repetitions Marx's theory of historical repetition, as it appears notably in The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte, turns on the following principle which does not seem to have been sufficiently understood by historians:"
"It is not known whether the Compendious, which was not published before but was certainly in existence and circulating in manuscript for thirty years beforehand, inspired England's monetary policy under Elizabeth."
"but, unlike all other extensive factors, it is an extension or 'explication' which is implicated as such in intensity, which does not exist outside the implication or except as implicated, and this is because it has the function of making possible the general movement by which that which is implicated explicates itself or is extended."
"The only thing that can save us from these impasses is an effective politicization of psychiatry."
"A disease must be regarded as an indivisible whole from its beginning to its end, a regular set of characteristic symptoms and a succession of periods."
"After melancholy, it remains for us to treat of madness, which is so far ally'd to the other, that these affects often change turns, and each passes into the other.'"
"In some way that is incomprehensible to me they have pushed right into the capital, although it is a long way from the frontier."
"God is an interrogation of God."
"Thereafter it is indeed essential that atoms be related to other atoms at the heart of structures which are actualised in sensible composites."
"They necessarily confront one another and exchange themselves for each other; they articulate themselves within the categories acknowledged or not, but always recognizable of a single historico metaphysical discourse."
"In each grain of sand a sign surprises (p."
"Barged was insane, but not in the manner of the mad on the Ship of Fools, who were mad to the extent that they were carried away by the brute force of madness."
", define the law of large numbers as follows: the larger the samples, the less."
"If difference is the fiancee, Ariadne, then it passes from Theseus to Dionysus, from the grounding principle to the universal 'ungrounding'."
"where Heidegger asks: 'whether that which never"
"The sole effect of these forces in thought is then assimilated precisely to error, which is supposed in principle to include all the effects of factual external causes."
"The earth is the primitive, savage unity of desire and production."
"The animality that raged in madness dispossessed man of his humanity, not so that he might fall prey to other powers, but rather to fix him at the degree zero of his own nature."
"Broussais, Examen des doctrines nd edn., Paris, vol. ."
"Moreover, the morphemes, which on their own account bring into play the virtual whole of the language, are the object of a progressive determination which proceeds by 'differential thresholds' and implies a purely logical time capable of measuring the genesis or actualisation."
"Calling to one another and answering one another throughout modern thought and throughout its history, we find a dialectical interplay and an ontology without metaphysics: for modern thought is one that moves no longer towards the never completed formation of Difference, but towards the ever to be accomplished unveiling of the Same."
"Between the social machine's regime and that of the desiring machines."
"In brief, the capitalist machine begins when capital ceases to be a capital of alliance to become a filiative capital."
"Ah Shestov, with the questions he poses, the ill will he manifests, the powerlessness to think he puts into thought and the double dimension he develops in these demanding questions concerning at once both the most radical beginning and the most stubborn repetition."
"; Laennec accepts from the outset the division of diseases into two great classes: those that are accompanied by a lesion present in one or several organs: for several years these have been known as organic diseases; and those that leave in no part of the body an alteration that is constant and to which an origin may be attributed: these are what are commonly called nervous diseases."
"The point is that in this text, by a paradoxical utilisation of the method, a counter utilisation, Plato proposes to isolate the false claimant par excellence, the one who lays claim to everything without any right: the 'sophist'.)"
"This majorwriting will be called writing because it exceeds the logos (of meaning, lordship, presence etc."
"in the ordering of their words, in the form left by discourse."
"Together with the fear that others might be inspired to similar actions, the honour of a family and of religion was often sufficient for a subject to be confined."
"This is because there is really an invisible producer who does not require any remuneration; it is with him that the farmer is, without knowing it, in partnership; and while the labourer consumes an amount equal to his work, that same work, by virtue of the labourer's Co Author, produces all the goods from which the creation of values will be deducted: 'Agriculture is a manufacture of divine institution in which the manufacturer has as his partner the Author of nature, the Producer of all goods and all wealth'."
"First of all, money as a general equivalent represents an abstract quantity that is indifferent to the qualified nature of the flows."
"It should be noted that the Removal, which was the result of a clause in the Settlement Act, was repealed a few years later, in after which date parishes were obliged to take care of any sick pauper found in the region, if there was a risk that removal might present a further danger to his health."
"However, dialectic loses its peculiar power when it remains content to trace problems from propositions: thus begins the history of the long perversion which places it under the power of the negative."
"In these texts, and in the lives of these men, the same violence spoke, or the same bitterness; visions were exchanged for sure, and language and delirium intertwined."
"Now, even if one does not follow Claude LeviStrauss when he asserts that there is no necessary connection between measure and structure, one must acknowledge that for certain kinds of structuresthose of literary ideality in particular this connection is excluded in principle."
"Ether brings sufficient movement for them to be carried to the brain and the nerves, where 'coming into contact with alkalis, they cause untold suffering'."
"From the outset, however, what are these fiery imperatives, these questions which are the beginning of the world?"
"Being so present and pressing the world of the insane was not easily perceived: it was intimated, felt and recognised before it was really there at all, and banished to a world of dreams and literary and pictorial representation."
"And when he comments on Job or Abraham, when he imagines the variations of Agnes and the Triton, he rewrites the tale in a manner which is clearly that of a scenario."
"A whole mystique is being born: that of the verb, of the pure poetic <U+FB02>ash that disappears without trace, leaving nothing behind it"
"this chapter we shall examine the final process by which anatomo clinical perception finds the form of its equilibrium."
"The hypothesis of insanity at this moment of the Cartesian order seems neither to receive any privileged treatment nor to be submitted to any particular exclusion."
"It is no use saying: We are not green plants; we have long since been unable to synthesize chlorophyll, so it's necessary to eat. ."
": here, gold is mixed with another metal, with stone, with earth; there, the violet grows side by side with an oak."
"Between designation and derivation, shifts of the imagination multiply; between articulation and attribution, errors of re<U+FB02>ection proliferate."
"On the other hand, this means that extensive quantity is the figure of another moment which indicates, rather, quantitative destination or finality (in a partial numerical system)."
"Removing the fetters of the madmen in the cells meant opening for them adomain of liberty that was also thedomain of verification, allowing them to appear in an objectivity that was no longer veiled by persecution or the frenzy that it provoked in return; it was the invention of the asylum in its pure state, just as Cabanis had defined it, and which the Convention wanted to see established for political reasons."
"The interest and the necessity of the serial form appear in the plurality of series subsumed by it, in their dependence upon singular points, and in the manner in which we can pass from one part of the object where the function is represented by a series to another where it is expressed in a different series, whether the two series converge or extend one another or, on the contrary, diverge."
"It is by means of this internal order, and the positions it allots to its words, that each language defines its specificity, and no longer by means of its place in a historical series."
"It is a matter of constructing a secondary language based upon that primary, but certain and universal, language."
"Hamlet resembles Oedipus by virtue of not only the content but also the dramatic form."
"All the cruelties and terrors meet in the precapitalist formations; some fragments of the signifying chain are struck by secrecy secret societies or initiation groups"
"Not so for the I and the Self, undermined by the fields of individuation which work beneath them, defenceless against a rising of the ground which holds up to them a distorted or distorting mirror in which all presently thought forms dissolve."
"The senselessness of his life pursues him, and ironically he is immortalised only by his madness, which becomes his imperishable life in death: This is a doughty knight's repose; So high his matchless courage rose That as it's plain enough to see, He granted death no victory, Not even when in death's last throes."
"It is indeed in such manner, in the form of the naive interlocutor, that philosophy represented to itself all that which was external to it."
"In other cases he manages to make a distinction where previously confusion reigned."
"it is all by itself/and has no need of organs/"
"Taken one by one and immobilized outside their syntax, all of Bataille's concepts are Hegelian."
"topos ouranios),z or as an eternal truth created by an infinite reason."
"The force of our weakness is that impotence separates, disengages, and emancipates."
"The essential issue therefore was to ascertain the reality and degree of the madness in question."
"The difference between Hegel and Bataille is the difference between these two differences."
"Is their juxtaposition anything but verbal?"
"In a sense, Pinel found himself invested with an extraordinary moral power."
"It is the law of dreams that must be dreams is completely analogous to the decipherment of an ancient produced or reproduced: I propose to renounce our empiricism of pictographic script such as Egyptian hieroglyphs )'."
"On the one hand, all signifying communication was interrupted; but on the other, the whole of the body was no longer called upon to form the structure of the immediate cause; only the brain, which, as it was the organ that approached the soul most closely, and even only certain privileged sectors within it, grouped together the aspects that were known as immediate causes, a term soon to be forgotten."
"One example among many others."
"Ever since I have had a body I am not this body, hence I do not possess it."
"A soul must be attributed to the heart, to the muscles, nerves and cells, but a contemplative soul whose entire function is to contract a habit."
"As they circulate through the market, while they are being exchanged for one another, values still have a power of representation."
"So much so that freedom was therefore more effective than chains when it came to binding the imagination, as it constantly forced the imagination to confront reality, burying strange dreams under familiar gestures."
"However, the analogue may be found in the two preceding figures where the disappearance of the quantum and the quantitas was the condition for the appearance of the element of quantitability, and disqualification the condition for the appearance of the element of qualitability."
"Second series of questions (and here we shall go somewhat beyond the case of Descartes, beyond the case of the Cartesian Cogtt which will be examined no longer in and of itself but as the index more general problematic): in the light of the rereading of the Can sian Cogito that we shall be led to propose (or rather to recall, for, history of madness?"
"We have not yet mentioned history, though it is the first and as it were the mother of all the sciences of man, and is perhaps as old as human memory."
"The relation of a concept to its object under this double aspect, in the form that it assumes in this memory and this selfconsciousness, is called representation."
"For the family must appear in two forms: one where doubtless it is guilty, but only in the manner in which the child lives it intensely, internally, and where it is confounded with the child's own guilt; the other where it is a tribunal of responsibility, before which one stands as a guilty child, and in relation to which one becomes a responsible adult (Oedipus as sickness and sanity, the family as an alienating factor and as an agent of dealienation, if only through the way in which it is reconstituted in the transference)."
"Capitalism merely ensures the regulation of the axiomatic; it regulates or even organizes the failures of the axiomatic as conditions of the latter's operation; it watches over or directs progress toward a saturation of the axiomatic and the corresponding widenings of the limits."
"Nothing remains of the infamous mobility once attributed to the uterus, which had been such a constant feature of the Hippocratic tradition."
"But since these relations supposedly come into being at a later stage in life, there are only two possible ways in which this can be explained: it must be granted either that sexuality is sublimated or neutralized in and through social (and metaphysical) relations, in the form of an analytic afterward or else that these relations bring into playa nonsexual energy, for which sexuality has merely served as the symbol of an anagogical beyond."
"The madness of an action was to be gauged by the number of reasons that had determined it."
"As a result, when the philosopher says 'I think therefore I am', he can assume that the universality of his premisses namely, what it means to be and to think."
"Oedipus as either problem or solution is the two ends of a ligature that cuts off all desiring production."
"All theater of alienation."
"First, to the extent that the individuating factors form a kind of noumenon of the phenomenon, we claim that the noumenon tends to appear as such in complex systems, that it finds its own phenomenon in the centres of envelopment."
"In classical confinement too the madman had been exposed to the gaze, but it had little power of penetration, going no deeper than the monstrous surface of his visible bestiality; and it had a degree of reciprocity, as healthy men could read there, as in a mirror, the imminent movement of their own fall."
"When we consider the organ in relation to its function, we see, therefore, the emergence of 'resemblances' where there is no 'identical' element; a resemblance that is constituted by the transition of the function into evident invisibility."
"(The substance is not the same, but differing in non negligible aspects.)"
"Repressions that have failed will of course have more claim on our interest than those that may have been successful; for the latter will for the most part escape our examination"
"This is the sleight of hand involved in the propitious moment (and perhaps everything else follows: the subordination of difference to opposition, to analogy, and to resemblance, all the aspects of mediation)."
"Wherefore this disease seizes many more women than men, because Nature has bestow'd them a more delicate and fine habit of body, having designed them only for an easy life, and to perform the tender offices of Love; but she gave men robust bodies, that they might be able to delve and manure the Earth, to kill wild Beasts for food, and the like."
"This analogy requires patient meditation."
"Now, we hope to show, for our part, that it is not the preposition mit which must describe the original relation with the other."
"One can measure sizes or multiplicities, in other words continuous sizes or discontinuous sizes; but in both cases the use of measurement presupposes that, unlike calculation, which proceeds from elements towards a totality, one considers the whole first and then divides it up into parts."
"Before that great moment of conversion that Calvin and Franck expect, Erasmus finds himself trapped by the myriad tiny conversions that appearances provide him with on their own level."
"Stoned thinking based on intensely lived experiences:"
"According to Renou, Not only do they ward off epilepsy, in all those who wear the stone surrounded by gold on their finger, but also strengthen the memory and help resist the temptation of concupiscence."
"We can avoid any possible abuse of this method of representation (mode de mise en scene; Darstellungsweise) by recollecting that ideas (Vorstellungen: representations), thoughts and psychical structures in general must never be regarded as localized in organic elements of the nervous system but rather, as one might say, between them, where resistance and facilitations provide the corresponding correlates."
"(f) fabulous, (g) stray dogs, (h) included in the present classification, (i) frenzied, (j) innumerable, ("
"Nothing is more clear, as concerns this, in Heidegger's thought."
"some reports of our perceptions do not provoke thought to reconsideration because the judgment of them by sensation seems adequate, while others always invite the intellect to reflection because the sensation yields nothing that can be trusted."
"But can this be said, can one think the false infinity as such (time, in a word), can one pause alongside it as alongside the truth of experience, without already (an already which permits us to think time!)"
"He thinks Miller is unaware of these things, and never wonders for a second why Nietzsche himself broke with The Birth of Tragedy, why he stopped believing in tragic representation."
"What is to be put right?'''"
"I Capitalist Representation Writing has never been capitalism's thing."
"The moment would come when the idea of a mechanistic psychology would be derived from this animal nature of madness, together with the idea that the different forms of madness can be compared to the great structures of animal life."
"If there were only one commodity, divisible as gold is, then half of that commodity would correspond to half of its total on the other side."
"Therefore we will be incoherent, but without systematically resigning ourselves to incoherence."
"This botanical model has a double importance for medical thought."
"first, it was essential to be able to apprehend in the depths of the body the relations that link superficial organs to those whose existence and hidden forms perform the essential functions; thus Storr proposes mammals according to the formation of their hoofs; the reason being that this is linked to methods of locomotion and to the animal's possibilities of movement; now, these methods of locomotion can be correlated in turn with the form of alimentation and the different organs of the digestive system."
"Between the nosological Iiaracters and terminal features to be read on the patient's face, lie qualities have roamed freely over the body."
"But at a deeper level than this spatial 'metaphor', and in order to make it possible, classificatory medicine presupposes a certain 'con figuration' of disease: it has never been formulated for itself, but one can define its essential requisites after the event."
"Designation, in so far as it is achieved in the case of a true proposition, would never be grounded unless it were understood as the limit of the genetic series or the ideal connections which constitute sense."
"What we are faced with here is a new formulation of that ancient moral intuition which, since Hippocrates and Plato, had made the womb a sort of living, perpetually mobile animal, and which had given a spatial order to its movements."
"The extreme importance of I. Lyotards recent book is due to its position as the first generalized critique of the signifier."
"Jean Pierre Richard: The difficulty of every structural account resides in that it must desc '"
"And the other pole, which makes Oedipus into a structure, a pole whose extreme position argues the possibility of discovering the structure in fantasy, in relation to biological prematuration and neoteny."
"In the contrary case, in which a new tissue is created, the laws of organization have been fundamentally dis turbed; the lesional tissue is different from any tissue existing in nature; inflammation, tubercles, scirrhi, and cancer are of this kind."
"We do not contemplate ourselves, but we exist only in contemplating that is to say, in contracting that from which we come."
"Fewer and fewer people believe in all this"
"Analytics studies the process by which the syllogism necessarily leads to a conclusion, while Dialectics invents the subjects of syllogisms (precisely what Aristotle calls 'problems') and engenders the elements of syllogisms concerning a given subject ('propositions')."
"At the adult in miniature, doubtless, but also at the attributing of something more than finality to natural life providence in action and art conscious of its works."
"(The illusion wends its way into contemporary logic where the calculus of problems is presented as extra mathematical, which is true, since it is essentially logical or dialectical."
"Repetiton separates force, presence, and life from themselves."
"From this point of view, the duality of the poles passes less between the molar and the molecular than to the interior of the molar social investments, since in allY case the molecular formations are such investments."
"This difference, this negativity in God is our freedom, the transcendence and the verb which can relocate the purity of their negative origin only in the possibility of the Question."
"but it is stilI an effect of neuroticization, a countereffect of one and the same illness."
"simulacra are precisely demonic images, stripped of resemblance."
"The consequence would be double."
"You weren't born Oedipus, you caused it to grow in yourself; and you aim to get out of it through fantasy, through castration, but this in turn you have caused to grow in Oedipus namely, in yourself: the horrible circle."
"(Here again, in the case of living matter, the negative forms of opposition and contradiction, obstacle and need, are secondary and derivative in relation to the imperatives of an organism to be constructed or a problem to be solved.)"
"The lesion was not the disease, but merely the first of the manifestations by which this generic character appeared, which opposed it to affections possessing no support."
"But it is obvious that the analytical structure is nei I her produced nor revealed by the picture itself; the analytical structure preceded the picture, and the correlation between each symptom and its symptomatological value was fixed once and lie all in an essential a priori; beneath its apparently analytical function, the picture's only role is to divide up the visible within an already given conceptual configuration."
"But, it might be objected, what is the matter with that?"
"If Huizinga is to be believed, there was a time in the early days of the Renaissance when avarice could claim that privilege, as in Dante's cicca cupidigia."
"Schizophrenia simply is not one among other attributes of an essence of man that would have to be constituted and acknowledged as the prerequisite basis of the study of man."
"The yell of the primitive man in a struggle becomes a true word only when it is no longer the lateral expression of his pain, and when it has validity as a judgement or as a statement of the type 'I am choking'."
"According to the hypothesis of the Cogitatio natura universalis, error is the 'negative' which develops naturally."
"Given the manner in which it is distributed in representation, resemblance need no longer be just that between copy and model."
"Such is the history of Oedipus: the parental figures are in no way organizers, but rather inductors or stimuli of varying, vague import that trigger processes of an entirely different nature, processes that are I"
"And the fact that language does not become or become once again through the agency of the root theory a historical entity is proved quite easily by the way in which etymologies were sought for in the eighteenth century."
"And everywhere it is the same, at both ends of the indivisible distance and on every side, a litany of twins, an intense filiation."
"This space has now been dissociated and as it were opened up in depth."
"Truth and falsity would be matters of designation (as Russell says: 'The question of truth and falsehood has to do with what words and sentences indicate, not with what they express.'."
": it establishes in the whole living world a vast resemblance which can be arranged in a scale of decreasing complexity, from man down to the zoophyte; in the higher species all these functions are present; but as we move down the scale, so we see them disappear one after the other, until finally, in the zoophyte, there is 'no centre of circulation, no nerves, no centre of sensation; each point seems to feed itself by suction'."
"It is perhaps against a certain image of Freudian thought that he writes in the First Manifesto: To consider the theater as a second hand psychological or moral function, and to believe that dreams themselves have only a substitute function, is to diminish the profound poetic bearing of dreams as well as of the theater. ."
"What made incest impossible namely, that at times we had the appellations (mother, sister) but not the persons or the bodies, while at other times we had the bodies, but the appellations disappeared from view as soon as we broke through the prohibitions they bore has ceased to exist."
"Through the thought of infinity, the ontic enclosure would have already been broken but in a sense of the unthought that would have to be examined more closely by means of what Heidegger calls metaphysics and onto theology."
"(Pans: Presses Universitaires de France,."
"It is in the analysis of that mode of being, and no longer in the analysis of representation, that re<U+FB02>ection since the nineteenth century has sought a philosophical foundation for the possibility of knowledge."
"From now on it was the homosexual element that became the chief matter of the accusation, this being compounded by the practice of sodomy, and a scandalised sensibility came into being regarding homosexual feelings."
"This fundamental differenciation (quality extensity) can find its reason only in the great synthesis of Memory which allows all the degrees of difference to coexist as degrees of relaxation and contraction, and rediscovers at the heart of duration the implicated order of that intensity which had been denounced only provisionally and from without."
"The limits of the faculties are encased one in the other in the broken shape of that which bears and transmits difference."
"so great, as not to be helped by the frequent jolting of the horse, and then too in the open air, whose innate heat is so extinguished, that it cannot be stirr'd"
"The actualisation of the virtual, on the contrary, always takes place by difference, divergence or differenciation."
"Is not the divine the disappearance of man announced in this distress of writing?"
"None of these forms of relation necessarily implies resemblance; even the natural sign does not require that: a cry is a spontaneous sign of fear, but not analogous to it; or again, as Berkeley puts it, visual sensations are signs of touch established in us by God, yet they do not resemble it in any way."
"But, in accordance with a gesture which was also Rousseau's and Husserl's, he must set aside all the facts at the moment when he wishes to recapture the specificity of a structure."
"At this point, the intensive factors of individuation take themselves as objects in such a manner as to constitute the highest element of a transcendent sensibility, the sentiendum; and from faculty to faculty, the ground is borne within thought still as the unthought and unthinking, but this unthought has become the necessary empirical form in which, in the fractured I (Bouvard and Pecuchet), thought at last thinks the cogitandutn; in other words, the transcendent element which can only be thought ('the fact that we do not yet think' or 'What is stupidity?')."
"imminent danger concentrates our vision on the keystone of an institution, the stone which encapsulates both the possibility and the fragility of its existence."
"its self justificatory discourse is bound up with a critical consciousness of man."
"madness and mental Illness are ceasing to belong to the same anthropological entity La folie"
"Thus begins the long history of the distortion of the dialectic, which culminates with Hegel and consists in substituting the labour of the negative for the play of difference and the differential."
"But the effect of the conjunction is indeed capital's tighter and tighter control over production: capitalism or its break, the conjunction of all the decoded and deterritorialized flows, cannot be defined by commercial capital or by financial capitalthese being merely flows among other flows and elements among other elements but rather by industrial capital."
"This is the first paradox: the contemporaneity of the past with the present that it was."
"In this manner the study of the families of schizophrenics has breathed new life into Oedipus by making it reign over the extensive order of an expanded family, where not only each person would combine to a greater or lesser extent his or her triangle with the triangle of others, but where the entirety of the extended family also would oscillate between the two poles of a healthy triangulation, structuring and differentiating, and forms of perverted triangles, bringing about their fusion in the realm of the undifferentiated."
"The madman is not always wrong about everything; he is not wrong often enough, is never mad enough."
"This explains why women, who are little given to melancholy, suffer to a greater degree when affected: 'they suffer more cruelly and become violently agitated, because as melancholy is more opposed to their temperament, it removes them further from their natural disposition'."
"It is a space in which analogies define essences."
"Everything in between was written afterward."
"But this death that comes from without is also that which was rising from within: the general irreducibility of alliance to filiation, the independence of the alliance groups, the way in which they serve as a conducting element for the political and economic relations, the system of primitive rankings, the mechanism of surplus value all this already prefigured despotic formations and caste hierarchies."
"This fixing of the concept was not the result of a new rigour in observation, nor any discovery in thedomain of causation, but of a qualitative transmission going from a cause implied in the name to a significant perception among the effects."
"But that is not all: they also permit the dissociation, which is characteristic of all contemporary knowledge about man, of consciousness and representation."
"Such a pre individual state nevertheless does not lack singularities: the distinctive or singular points are defined by the existence and distribution of potentials."
"But why does Freud thus add that, on second thought, hysterical neurosis comes first, and that disjunctions appear only as a result of the projection of a more basic, primordial condensed material?"
"Repetition in the eternal return never means continuation, perpetuation or prolongation, nor even the discontinuous return of something which would at least be able to be prolonged in a partial cycle (an identity, an I, a Self) but, on the contrary, the reprise of pre individual singularities which, in order that it can be grasped as repetition, presupposes the dissolution of all prior identities."
"Buffon, Histoire de la terre."
"It comes as no surprise that Freud looks to Sophocles for the central image of Oedipus the despot, the myth become tragedy, in order to make the image radiate in two contrary directions:"
"In the long run it is the father who appears guilty, through having tried to avenge himself, and it is he who is killed."
"Another sign of this alterity in general, which things share here with others, is that something within them too is always hidden, and is indicated only by anticipation, analogy and appresentation."
"I the ambivalence that traverses psychoanalysis, and that extends beyond the specific problem of myth and tragedy: with one hand psychoanalysis undoes the system of objective representations (myth, tragedy) for the benefit of the subjective essence conceived as desiring production, while with the other hand it reverses this production in a system of subjective representations (dream and fantasy, with myth and tragedy posited as their developments or projections)."
"They are the same impressions that can be found identically in dreaming."
"The critic and the doctor are without resource when confronted by an existence that refuses to signify, or by an art without works, a language without a trace."
"But reason restored demonstrates even more clearly that the soul is nothing but organised physical matter; for madness is only ever destruction, and how could it be proved that the soul has really been destroyed, rather than simply bound in chains or hidden, or pushed aside?"
"The sovereign operation therefore also suspends subordination in the form of immediacy."
"It is easy to multiply reasons which make habit independent of repetition: to act is never to repeat, whether it be an action in process or an action already completed."
"A world of light and of unity, a philosophy of a world of light, a orld without time."
"But doesn't this man, the film's protagonist, have a son of his own?"
"Boissier de Sauvages, Nosologie thodique ("
"It is only by means of the body without organs (eyes closed tight, nostrils pinched shut, ears ChiJdren of both sexes regard urine in its positive aspect as equivalent to their mother's milk, in accordance with the unconscious, which equates all bodily substances with one another:' Melanie Klein, The Psycho Analysis of Children."
"Clinical observation involves two necessarily uniteddomains: the hospitaldomain and the teachingdomain."
"Among the first group were all the properly physical methods that tended to lacerate the surface of the body, creating wounds, centres of infection that freed the organism and centres of evacuation towards the exterior."
"And it laughs at itself, a major laughter laughs at a minor laughter, for the sovereign operation also needs life the life that welds the two lives together in order to be in relation to itself in the pleasurable consumption of itself"
"Brueghel's lepers watch from afar, but forever, as Christ climbs Mount Calvary accompanied by a whole people."
"Systems of simulacra affirm divergence and decentring: the only unity, the only convergence of all the series, is an informal chaos in which they are all included."
"Every thing, animal or being assumes the status of simulacrum; so that the thinker of eternal return who indeed refuses to be drawn out of the cave, finding instead another cave beyond, always another in which to hide can rightly say that he is himself burdened with the superior form of everything that is, like the poet 'burdened with humanity, even that of the animals'."
"Even further: habit is renovated and memory is refreshed."
"And if Artaud makes us think this, it is no longer as the example of a structure, because in question is the very thing theft which constitutes the structure of the example as such."
"Cantin, Projet de reforme adresse I'Assemblee Nationale (Paris,. ."
"Through touch we can locate visceral tumours, scirrhous masses, swellings of the ovary, and dilations of the heart; while with the ear we can perceive 'the crepitation of fragments of bone, the rumbling of aneurism, the more or less clear sounds of the thorax and the abdomen when sounded'."
"The Oedipus complex appears only after latency; and when Freud recognizes two phases separated by latency, it is only the second phase that merits the complex's name, while the first expresses only its parts and wheels functioning from a completely different viewpoint, in a completely different organization."
"The Controleur des Finances could send them out to the provinces to make inquiries and ask them for reports."
"But with the arrival of the industrial economy and its thirst for manpower, paupers were once again a part of the body of the nation."
"This is why literary criticism is structuralist in every age, in its essence and destiny."
"The organs are regenerated, rniraculated on the body of Judge Schreber, who attracts God's rays to himself."
"In the Elementary Structures, he begins from this axiom or definition: that which is universal and spontaneous, and not dependent on any particular culture or on any determinate norm, belongs to nature."
"It is always in one and the same movement that repetition includes difference (not as an accidental and extrinsic variant but at its heart, as the essential variant of which it is composed, the displacement and disguise which constitute it as a difference that is itself divergent and displaced) and that it must receive a positive principle which gives rise to material and indifferent repetition (the abandoned snake skin, the envelope emptied of what it implicates, the epidermis which lives and dies only from its own soul or latent content)."
"What does one see, in fact, in the American familialist studies pursued by antipsychiatrists?"
"The development of the madness can thus be reconstituted as follows."
"While the mind of the madman is led on by the arbitrary, oneiric nature of images, on the other hand, and at the same time he locks himself into a cycle of erroneous consciousness."
"He has already banished the shadow of the negative: he knows that repetition is not that of the dwarf."
"it was the more secret coherence of a perception."
"What is in question throughout thisdomain that we have had to extend to include the organic as such?"
"Did not the seventeenth and eighteenth century doctor remain at a distance' from his patient?"
"In effect, the essential in univocity is not that Being is said in a single and same sense, but that it is said, in a single and same sense, of all its individuating differences or intrinsic modalities."
"In this marvellous economy, work is doubly effective: it produces and destroys, as work necessary to society is born out of the death of workers whose disappearance is desirable."
"This explains why classical theater, in Artaud's eyes, is not simply the absence, negation, or forgetting of theater"
"The unity of these significations, hidden beneath their apparent dispersion, the unity of the proper as the nonpollution of the subject absolutely close to himself, does not occur before the Latin era of philosophy (proprius is attached to proper); and, for the same reason, the metaphysical determination of madness as the disease of alienation could not have begun its development before this era."
"It is this event that places formalization, or mathematicization, at the very heart of any modern scientific project; it is this event, too, that explains why all hasty mathematicization or naive formalization of the empirical seems like 'pre critical' dogmatism and a return to the platitudes of Ideology."
"A confinement that was not medical by nature, but was the most effective and gentle form of assistance possible: Of all the misfortunes that afflict humanity, the state of madness is among those which in several ways command pity and respect the most; help should be given above all to all those in such a state, and even when there is no hope of a cure, there are still a myriad means by which their suffering may be alleviated, and good treatments that can restore these wretches to a life that is at least bearable."
"On the other a fabric of traces marking the disappearance of an exceeded God or of an erased man."
"In that way the Encyclop die makes a distinction between 'physical truth' and 'moral truth'."
"At the time of Descartes or Leibniz, the reciprocal transparency of knowledge and philosophy was total, to the point that the universalization of knowledge in a philosophical system of thought did not require a specific mode of re<U+FB02>ection."
"But there was another path, more direct and more effective, where man no longer played the negative role of anti instrument, but reacted as though he himself had become the instrument: If one conceives of the human body as an assemblage of fibres of varying tensions, ignoring their sensibility, their life and their movement, one can easily understand that music will have the same effect on the fibres as it does on the strings of adjacent instruments."
"Since the mid seventeenth century, madness had been linked to this place of confinement, and to the gesture that designated it as its natural place."
"These degrees are themselves like the relations of the universal, and the differential relations, in this sense, are caught up in a process of reciprocal determination which translates the interdependence of the variable coefficients."
"We have chosen to tran.slat obje."
"It is a lie to claim to liberate sexuality, and to demand its rights to objects, aims, and sources, all the while maintaining the corresponding flows within the limits of an Oedipal code (conflict, regression, resolution, sublimation of Oedipus), and while continuing to impose a farnilialist and masturbatory form or motivation on it that makes any perspective of liberation futile in advance."
"However, as long as the transcendental consequences are not explicitly drawn and the dogmatic image of thought subsists in principle, this dream also functions as no more than a 'repentance'."
", the surface of the globe; living beings are affected only indirectly and in a secondary way: they are attracted or driven away by heat; volcanoes destroy them; they disappear with the land that crumbles away beneath them."
"An organ may have connections that associate it with several different flows; it may waver between several functions, and even take on the regime of another organ the anorectic mouth, for instance."
"such is the histrionisrn of the schizophrenic, according to Klossowski's formula, the true program for a theater of cruelty, the mise en scene of a machine to produce the real."
"Sounding by percussion is not justified if the disease is composed only of a web of symptoms; it becomes necessary if the patient is hardly more than an injected corpse, a half filled barrel."
"In so far as language can represent all representations it is with good reason the element of the universal."
"Levinas often warns us against confusing as one is so tempted to dohis anti Hegelianism with a subjectivism, or with a Kierkegaardian type of existentialism, both of which would remain, according to Levinas, violent and premetaphysical egoisms."
"The passive synthesis of habit in turn refers to this more profound passive synthesis of memory: Habitus and Mnemosyne, the alliance of the sky and the ground."
"But they are the high models that imitators inflect and weaken."
"The object of an Idea, Kant reminds us, is neither fiction nor hypothesis nor object of reason: it is an object which can be neither given nor known, but must be represented without being able to be directly determined."
"The laconic, lapidary quality of dreams is not the impassive presence of petrified signs."
"However, the notions of differential and order accord with the dialectic in a quite different manner."
"In a third sense, finally, the ultimate synthesis concerns only the future, since it announces in the superego the destruction of the Id and the ego, of the past as well as the present, of the condition and the agent."
"But that is precisely what is not possible, for, though 'thought is a simple operation', 'its expression is a successive operation'."
"He had an iron collar around his neck attached to another ring by a short chain, the second ring going round a thick vertical iron bar that went from the floor to the ceiling."
"The effect of the exercise."
"Resembling a phenomenological figure, trait for trait, sovereignty is the absolute alteration of all of them."
"There was talk of gaol fever, and the carts transporting the condemned were blamed, as were the chain gangs who were marched through the towns, leaving a trail of disease in their wake."
"If it was absolved, it would not be the other either, but the Same."
"Not forgetting the September massacres, continual bids for freedom, and the manner in which many innocents were forced to watch garrotting and chain gangs leaving the asylum."
"A man who imagines that he is made of glass is not mad, for any sleeper might have that image in a dream."
"Despite all the measures that had been taken to avoid unemployment and wage falls, poverty was increasing inexorably around the country."
"From the moment lack is reintroduced into desire"
"The variable multiplicity is the how many, the how and each of the cases."
"the impersonality of the State, or the neutrality of the one says."
"The line is straight, and progress was easy."
"In its natural state such a faculty lacks the means to distinguish what is true or false, what is founded or not, in any problem it poses."
"If the terror of a punishment and public shaming become associated in the mind with fits of anger, the one will not manifest itself without the other: the poison and the antidote will become inseparable."
"In fact, it was not an age old inattentiveness being suddenly dissipated, but a new field of visibility being constituted in all its density."
"Ideas are thus multiplicities with differential glimmers, like will o' the wisps, 'virtual trails of fire', from one faculty to another, without ever having the homogeneity of that natural light which characterises common sense."
"We are told that the father died over a period of thousands of years ("
"Medical perception must be directed neither to series nor to groups; it must be structured as a look through 'a magnifying glass, which, when applied to different parts of an object, makes one notice"
"Types: transports of the brain, dementia, melancholy, demonomania, mania in general Abnormal forms of madness."
"Certainly not Aristotle."
"First of all, between articulation and derivation: if the existence of an articulated language is possible, with words in juxtaposition, interlocking, or arranging themselves in relation to one another, then it is so only in so far as the words of that language starting from their original values and from the simple act of designation that was their basis have never ceased to move further and further away, by a process of derivation, thus acquiring a variable extension;"
"However, this objection clearly fails if Platonic division in no way proposes to determine the species of a genus or if, rather, it proposes to do so, but superficially and even ironically, the better to hide under this mask its true secret."
"Such was the decision, after deliberation, of the administration of the pital ral in 'Sufferers from venereal diseases will only be admitted after correction has been carried out, and after they have been whipped: this much is to be certified by their referral papers.'"
"What God introduced into the world was written words; Adam, when he imposed their first names upon the animals, did no more than read those visible and silent marks; the Law was entrusted to the Tablets, not to men's memories; and it is in a book that the true Word must be found again."
"Once again one is caught, without a way out: it is simply that the means have been found to render the family transcendent."
"In the first, vertical dimension we can distinguish ordinal varieties according to the nature of the elements and the differential relations: for example, mathematical, mathematico physical, chemical, biological, physical, sociological and linguistic Ideas."
"But in that contestation itself, there was no reduction of the one by the other, but rather (as in Montaigne), the discovery of a central uncertainty where the œuvre was born, at the moment where it ceased being born to truly become a work."
"One fo resees to th .,e oresm.or separation, distance or impas iveness heretofore have been the targets of the classical objections against theoretism and objectivism."
"Now, it is possible to use the measurement of sizes and multiplicities in establishing an order; arithmetical values can always be arranged according to a series; a multiplicity of units can therefore 'be arranged according to an order such that the difficulty, which previously lay in the knowing of measurement, comes finally to depend solely on the consideration of order'."
"You also see two Gods among the girls:"
"The only subject is desire itself on the body without organs, inasmuch as it machines partial objects and flows, selecting and cutting the one with the other, passing from one body to another, following connections and appropriations that each time destroy the factitious unity of a possessive or proprietary ego (anoedipal sexuality)."
"It culminates by being a movement of the nerves and muscles of such violence that nothing in the course of images, ideas or will seems to correspond to it any longer."
"Finally, the origin of knowledge was sought within this pure sequence of representations a sequence so perfect and so linear that the second had replaced the first without one's becoming conscious of the fact, since they were not simultaneous, since it was not possible to establish any difference between them, and since one could not experience the second as other than 'like' the first; and it was only when a sensation appeared to be more 'like' a previous one than all the others that reminiscence could come into play, that imagination could represent a representation afresh, and that knowledge could gain a foothold in this duplication."
"This alphabetical image was transposed essentially unaltered into the definition of the clinical gaze."
"It no longer produces an overcoding unity; it is itself produced inside the field of decoded flows."
"He is constantly obliged to consult it in order to know what to do or say, and what signs he should give himself and others in order to show that he really is of the same nature as the text from which he springs."
"This possibility is absolutely rejected in the case of Others."
"The test that has been tried out has 'worked'"
"When it named the being of all representation in general, it was philosophy: theory of knowledge and analysis of ideas."
"For imagination intervenes here only in order to gather up the resonances and ensure the disguises between the two presents in the series of the real as lived reality."
"In the family, the disease was in a state of `nature', that is, in accord with its own nature and freely exposed to the regenerative forces of nature."
"The Societe received an income of francs raised from mineral waters, while the Faculte received hardly francs.'"
"You cannot resolve yourself to do so."
"Its gratuitous and baseless necessity."
"Indeed, Kierkegaard said that he was a poet of the faith rather than a knight in short, a 'humorist'."
"But one thing is certain, even when transcribed in anecdotal form: from the end of the seventeenth century onwards, the cure by baths was, or was once more, the most common form of treatment for insanity."
"We term it analogy. ."
"The materiality of a word cannot be translated or carried over into another language."
"Would he not precisely renounce all those guarantees of a reasonable meditation he gave himself by choosing, as was said above, the moment of his enterprise (quite advanced in years, but not excessively so; the moment has come which must not be passed up), its conditions (to be seated quietly, without any care that might form a distraction), its place (a peaceful retreat)?"
"It was not knowledge that gave them their signifying function, but the very language of things."
"That space where the king and his wife hold sway belongs equally well to the artist and to the spectator: in the depths of the mirror there could las meninas also appear there ought to appear the anonymous face of the passerby and that of Vel zquez."
"It was not in itself an experience, but a condensed version, for the use of others, of previous experience. '"
"It is here that it becomes really necessary to suppose that representations resemble one another and suggest one another in the imagination; that natural beings are in relations of adjacency and resemblance to one another; and that men's needs correspond to one another and are capable of satisfaction."
"When I showed him the toys I had put ready, he looked at them without the faintest interest."
"The Classical episteme is articulated along lines that do not isolate, in any way, a specificdomain proper to man."
"The substitute does not substitute itself for anything which has somehow existed before it."
"or. ); the names, the appellations no longer designate intensive states, but discernible persons."
"Inversely, a confrontation of Levinas's thought with Feuerbach's anti Hegelianism would necessarily uncover, it seems to us, more profound convergences and affinities that the meditation of the Trace would confirm further still."
"The scandal was multiplied by the crimes that monomaniacs carried out, and the problem of the responsibility that was to be imputed to them."
"As in the case of recognition, we must pursue the discussion at the level of principle itself, by questioning the legitimacy of the distribution of the empirical and the transcendental carried out by the dogmatic image."
"The absence of all direct links guarantees their common participation in the divine substance."
"In this regard, we believe that Leon Selme made a profound discovery."
"Now, only the first of these and roughly half of the third have to be paid in specie; the rest can be paid in the form of direct exchanges of goods."
"Here again, with regard to this base, we cannot avoid seeing in the negative (need as lack) the shadow of a higher instance."
"In the economic sphere this distinction does not exist, since, for desire, the relation to its object and the affirmation that it is desirable are one and the same thing; to designate it is already to posit the connection."
"This kind of knowledge involves the allotting of a sign to all that our representation can present us with: perceptions, thoughts, desires; these signs must have a value as characters, that is, they must articulate the representation as a whole into distinct subregions, all separated from one another by assignable characteristics; in this way they authorize the establishment of a simultaneous system according to which the representations express their proximity and their distance, their adjacency and their separateness and therefore the network, which, outside chronology, makes patent their kinship and reinstates their relations of order within a permanent area."
"Now, this great mixture is the result of a chronological series of events."
"Then and this is the second phase of the event knowledge in its positivity changes its nature and its form."
"According to Rousset also."
"The definitive character of a foundation was in contradiction with the variable and changing nature of the accidental needs to which it was designed to respond."
"From Tissot to Morel, the same lesson is repeated, lending the human milieu a power of alienation, made up essentially of the memory of everything that within it mediates nature."
"first, because it is the sign and with it the whole of discursive knowledge that requires a basis of similitude, and, second, because it is no longer a question of making a previous content manifest to knowledge but of providing a content that will be able to offer a ground upon which forms of knowledge can be applied."
"The phantasy is the manifestation of the child as dark precursor."
"They have, in fact, covered the whole of that history, since we can follow the dynasty of their privileges for more than a century: first, the reign of the biological model (man, his psyche, his group, his society, the language he speaks all these exist in the Romantic period as living beings and in so far as they were, in fact, alive; their mode of being is organic and is analysed in terms of function); then comes the reign of the economic model (man and his entire activity are the locus of con<U+FB02>icts of which they are both the more or less manifest expression and the more or less successful solution); lastly just as Freud comes after Comte and Marx there begins the reign of the philological (when it is a matter of interpretation and the discovery of hidden meanings) and linguistic model (when it is a matter of giving a structure to and clarifying the signifying system)."
"composite images, images flattened onto other images, so that when this operation reaches its outcome the little ego of each person, related to its father mother, is truly the center of the world."
"Sincerity, which is simplicity, is a lying virtue."
"There where the codes are undone, the death instinct lays hold of the repressive apparatus and begins to direct the circulation of the libido."
"But no mistake should be made about this apparent anteriority of the others' madness: its ancient appearance is mainly due to the manner in which, beyond all possible memories, the consciousness of not being mad has spread a veil of atemporal calm. '"
"But the genic unconscious is familial only to a very small degree, much less so than Freud's unconscious, since the diagnosis is carried out by comparing desire to the photographs of hermaphrodites, assassins, etc., instead of reducing it as usual to the images of daddy mommy."
"But the moment that one describes, on the contrary, the material process of production, the specificity of the product tends to evaporate, while at the same time the possibility of another outcome, another end result of the process appears."
"He arrived at the Retreat handcuffed and in chains, with his clothes tied on with ropes."
"However, difference creates both this extensity and this quality."
"Assuming that Nature refuses the leap, one can understand why Scripture will never be Nature."
"In Thus Spoke Zarathustra, the question of the eternal return arises twice, but each time it appears as a truth not yet reached and not expressed:"
"When Raymond Roussel poses his 'equations of facts' as problems to be solved, as ideal facts or events which begin to resonate as an effect of an imperative of language, or as facts which are themselves fiats, when many modern novelists install themselves in this aleatory point, this imperative and questioning 'blind spot' from which the work develops like a problem by making divergent series resonate they are not doing applied mathematics, or employing a mathematical or physical metaphor."
"The aphorism, says Nietzsche, the sentence, in which I, as the first among the Germans, am a master, are the forms of eternity."
"Why is it necessary still to use the word exteriority (which, if it has a meaning, if it is not an algebraic, obstinately beckons toward space and light) in order to signify a nonspatial relationship?"
"Tension and relaxation, hardness and softness, rigidity and rest and swelling and desiccation are all qualitative states of the mind as well as of the body, and ultimately refer to an indistinct and mixed situation regarding the passions, imposing its common forms on the flow of ideas and feelings, the state of the nerve fibres and the circulation of the fluids."
"And what is his pain if not a pleasure for the eye that regards it, the collective or divine eye that is not motivated by any idea of revenge, but is alone capable of grasping the subtle relationship between the sign engraved in the body and the voice issuing from a face between the mark and the mask."
"But this is already the point of view required given a change of perspective for examining the primitive socius, the territorial machine Claude Levi Strauss, Structural Anthropology, trans."
"The true and the false do not suffer the indifference of the conditioned with regard to its condition, nor does the condition remain indifferent with regard to what it renders possible."
"The image of a smell whose strong effluvia revolt the body is gradually replaced by the more abstract idea of a sensibility that moves around various isolated regions of the body, but this is only a shift in the speculative interpretations of a symbolic scheme that remains unchanged the scheme of a repression of threats from below by higher orders."
"There has been, and still is, a great deal of discussion as to whether the doctors of the eighteenth century had grasped its contagious character, and whether they had posed the problem of the agent of their transmission."
"And the beginning is not absolute: it is only constituted starting from investments of the social historical field that are effected by the father."
"In the method, general organization and its internal dependencies are more important than the lateral application of a constant apparatus of variables."
"While asserting the necessity of escaping the alternative of the two discourses for the mystery stems also from this simultaneously double reading of an event which, however, is no more situated in one than in the other of the two versions, and primarily because this event is a demonic one which keeps itself outside the opposition sickness health, Blanchot narrows the field of medical knowledge which misses the singularity of the event and masters every surprise in advance."
"the two names, which are the subject and the predicate, and their copulation; speaking both which names raise in our mind"
"But in the Classical period the relation was not at all the same; the two figures fitted over each other exactly: in order that language could be entirely comprised within the general form of the proposition, each word, down to the least of its molecules, had to be a meticulous form of nomination."
"It was to be shorn of all the fringes of non being where the games of unreason unfolded, and where it was accepted both as persecuted non madness and as hidden non madness, without ever ceasing to be madness on that account."
"Leibniz and Hegel separately both escape the choice between the Large and the Small, but together they fall back into the choice between the infinitely small and the infinitely large."
"This analysis is the true secret of discoveries because it makes us go hack to the origin of"
"The request of the guard at Brunswick gaol was of the same order: the good order of the workshop was disturbed by cries and disorder of the insane, their ravings were a perpetual danger, and they were better off back in their cages where they could be tied up."
"The analytical method would consider the case only in its function as a semantic support; the forms of coexistence or of the series in which it was caught up made it possible to annul in it whatever was accidental or variable; its legible structure appeared only in the neutralization of what was not essential."
"Structure also makes possible the description of what one sees, and this in two ways which are neither contradictory nor mutually exclusive."
"It would be a mistake to read Anti Oedipus as the new theoretical reference (you know, that much heralded theory that finally encompasses everything, that finally totalizes and reassures, the one we are told we need so badly in our age of dispersion and specialization where hope is lacking)."
"A process of conceptual deduction leads to the straitjacket, showing that in madness, the experience was no longer of an absolute conflict between reason and unreason, but rather of a play always relative, always mobile between freedom and its limits."
"It is the same for the whole project of coding the flows."
"The blend then bubbled up, giving off noxious vapours and corrosive liquids: 'These wards are atrocious places where crimes ferment, spreading around them, so to speak, a contagious atmosphere which is breathed, and which seems to stick to all those who live there.'"
"The history of madness itself is therefore the archaeology of a silence."
"Just as Order in Classical thought was not the visible harmony of things, or their observed arrangement, regularity, or symmetry, but the particular space of their being, that which, prior to all effective knowledge, established them in the field of knowledge, so History, from the nineteenth century, defines the birthplace of the empirical, that from which, prior to all established chronology, it derives its own being."
"Beauchesne proposes a purely aetiological classification, according to temperament, predisposition and alterations to the nervous system:"
"It is no longer the age of cruelty or the age of terror, but the age of cynicism, accompanied by a strange piety."
"Something in the world forces us to think."
"Literature would then, perhaps, only be the dreamlike displacement of this question:"
"Foucault, in rejecting the psychiatric or philosophical material that has always emprisoned the mad, winds up employing inevitably a popular and equivocal notion of madness, taken from an unverifiable source."
"Individuation ensures the embedding of the two dissimilar halves."
"What is the nature of this order?"
"If some conspiracy, according to Nietzsche's wish, were to use science and art in a plot whose ends were no less suspect, industrial society would seem to foil this conspiracy in advance by the kind of mise en scene it offers for it, under pain of effectively suffering what this conspiracy reserves for this society:.e."
"A new epiphany of the supernatural and the divine must occur within cruelty."
"The nature of the universal is lost, but with it equally the nature of the singular, for the problem or the Idea is a concrete singularity no less than a true universal."
"But Ideology, by extending its re<U+FB02>ection over the whole field of knowledge from primary impressions to political economy, by way of logic, arithmetic, the sciences of nature, and grammar tried to resume in the form of representation precisely what was being formed and re formed outside representation."
"However, it still remains relative to the representation that it grounds."
"Artaud initially dreamed of a graphism which would not begin as deviation, of a nonseparated inscription: an incarnation of the letter and a bloody tatoo: In deference to this letter (from Jean Paulhan, I continued for a further month to work at writing a verbally, not a grammatically, successful poem."
"That is what style is, or rather the absence of style asyntactic, agrammatical:"
"For there is indeed a sexual revolution, which does not concern objects, aims, or sources, but only machinic forms or indices."
"But now, when faced with madness, a citizen had a fundamental power that made him both a 'man of the law' and a 'man of the government'."
"Andral, Clinique medicale (Paris, vols."
"As an organic reaction to an irritating agent, the pathological phenomenon can no longer belong to a world in which the disease, in its particular structure, would exist in conformity with adominant type that preceded it, and in which it was fulfilled, once individual variations and non essential accidents had been set aside; it is caught up in an organic web in which the structures are spatial, the determinations causal, the phenomena anatomical and physiological."
"Moreover, Descartes's famous suggestion that good sense (the capacity for thought) is of all things in the world the most equally distributed rests upon no more than an old saying, since it amounts to reminding us that men are prepared to complain of lack of memory, imagination or even hearing, but they always find themselves well served with regard to intelligence and thought."
"The only possible form of link between the elements of this knowledge is addition."
"Similarly, anatomy has its simple tissues"
"It may be that the paranoiac himself is either a gentle creature or a raging beast."
"eclairee par l'ouverture et l'observation (Paris, Year vol."
"The preconscious revolution refers to a new regime of social production that creates, distributes, and satisfies new aims and interests."
"The principle of fear, which is rarely decreased by insanity, is considered as of great importance in the management of the patients.'"
"But in considering the change in the subject, we are already beyond these conditions, confronting the general form of difference."
"not because it represented a residue of a past that they wished to obliterate, but rather on account of its novelty, since it manifested better than others a certain consciousness of madness and the status it was granted."
"Its species and not its seat or its cause determined the nature of a disease; and the very fact of having or not having a localizable site was prescribed by the prior forms of this determination."
"Until now, our concern was with the dramatic constitution of a being on the basis of the violent suppression of its existence: now the concern will be with the constitution, in the serenity of knowledge, of a form of nature on the basis of the unveiling of a non being."
"The Inscribing Socius"
"First, evil fermented within the closed spaces of confinement."
"This second report was written in a quite different spirit: in order to win acceptance for a reconstitution of a professional body of doctors, which was implicit in his project, he opposed the distinction whereby physicians were confined to the towns, surgeons being 'all that was needed in the country', and apothecaries being entrusted with the treatment of children."
"Be calm and confident, and I shall restore your liberty.'"
"The terrifying powers hidden within madness stoked the secret life of these practices."
"For this reason, it is above all silent (not given in experience), whereas the pleasure principle is noisy."
"Against the background of this essential interaction, the rest is merely effect:"
"Withdraw allegiance from the old categories of the Negative (law, limit, castration, lack, lacuna), which Western thought has so long held sacred as a form of power and an access to reality."
"This difference is not 'between' in the ordinary sense of the word."
"It was an architectural pyramid, with carding and weaving at its base, and at the top there was 'a platform to serve as place for warp to be stretched before it was introduced to the loom'."
"The revolutionary is the first to have the right to say: Oedipus?"
"How could this body have been produced by parents, when by its very nature it is such eloquent witness of its own self production, of its own engendering of itself?"
"Which makes it perilous."
"The symptoms observed at the pital ral were 'no more than was to be expected for the time of year, and differ little from anything to be observed in Paris in that period.'"
", those who believe in a security that amounts to being lost in the herd and defined in terms of common and external goals?"
"The infinitely other, the infinity of the other, is not the other as a positive infinity, as God, or as resemblance with God."
"But it does much more than that."
"We do not intend to enter into it here."
"Having become a dense and consistent historical reality, language forms the locus of tradition, of the unspoken habits of thought, of what lies hidden in a people's mind; it accumulates an ineluctable memory which does not even know itself as memory."
"In the secret of its movements, infernal water contains all the images in which mania takes on a concrete form."
"The revenues would be divided equally between the parish clergy and the doctors."
"Whereas in the case of the preceding configuration (sign language) the coherence was real, though often only half visible, here probability was being constantly invoked as a form of explanation or justification, but it only achieved a low degree of coherence."
"This me on is so called because it precedes all affirmation, but is none the less completely positive."
"It is the secret logic of this quality that orders the future of the notion of melancholy, not medical theory."
"On the one hand was the abstraction of confinement taken in its most general terms, with no reference to the confined themselves who were merely an opportunity and a raw material rather than the raison d' tre of the project itself."
"Take the following examples borrowed from very diverse literary systems."
"But it may be that although the senses sometimes deceive us con cerning things which are hardly perceptible, or very far away, there are yet many others to be met with as to which we cannot reasonably have anyy doubt."
"It is of the essence of representation not only to represent something but to represent its own representativity."
"And yet for anyone who philosophises about the exactness of medicine, and on its successes and failures, is the soul not both more and less than this free prisoner?"
"is Pinel, op. cit.,."
"We their own pathways."
"Completely ordinary families are baptized as schizophrenogenic, as well as completely ordinary familial mechanisms, and an ordinary familial logic,.e., neuroticizing at worst."
"such is the I nature of the violent oscillations that overwhelm an individual so long as he seeks only his own center and is incapable of seeing the circle of which he himself is a part; for if these oscillations overwhelm him, it is because each one of them corresponds to an individual other than the one he believes himself to be, from the point of view of the unlocatable center."
"It is also a social prejudice with the visible interest of maintaining us in an infantile state, which calls upon us to solve problems that come from elsewhere, consoling or distracting us by telling us that we have won simply by being able to respond: the problem as obstacle and the respondent as Hercules."
"The animal in man was no longer the indicator of a beyond, but had become in itself his madness, with no reference to anything other than itself, his madness in a natural state."
"was not a sign that the innocence of the criminal was recognised, but remained, simply, a favour."
"Would I not risk no longer meditating at all, or carrying out nothing more than an eccentric meditation, instead of meditating in a valid manner about eccentricity, if I started to play the madman?"
"It may also be breakthrough The person going through ego loss or transcendental experiences mayor may not become in different ways confused."
"For Levinas, as for Heidegger, language would be at once a coming forth and a holding back reserve enlightenment and obscurity; and for both, dissimulation would be a conceptual gesture."
"With all their twists and turns, Don Quixote's adventures form the boundary: they mark the end of the old interplay between resemblance and signs and contain the beginnings of new relations."
"Biological formations and social formations are not formed in the same way in which they function."
"For Nietzsche is not the kind to ruminate Over the death of the father, and spend all his Paleolithic period internalizing him."
"These two things lead to one conclusion:"
"To grasp the operation of creative imagination at the greatest pos sible proximity to it, one must turn oneself toward the invisible interior of poetic freedom."
"The epoch of meaning: lordship and sovereignty To begin with, does not sovereignty, at first glance, translate the lordship (Herrschaft) of the Phenomenology?'"
"This is what LeviStrauss says in The Raw and the Cooked, from which I would now like to quote a long and remarkable passage: The study of myths raises a methodological problem, in that it cannot be carried out according to the Cartesian principle of breaking down the difficulty into as many parts as may be necessary for finding the solution."
"Let us add that by enveloping the illness in a familial complex internal to the patient, and then the familial complex itself in the transference or the doctor patient relationship, Freudian psychoanalysis made a somewhat intensive use of the family."
"The new grammar is immediately diachronic."
"And in this region where representation remains in suspense, on the edge of itself, open, in a sense, to the closed boundary of finitude"
"Infinity (as infinitely other) cannot be violent as is totality (which is thus always defined by Levinas, always determined by an option, that is, an initial decision of his discourse, as finite totality: totality, for Levinas, means a finite totality."
"(Delacroix) Valley is a common female dream symbol."
"Sweat cures were practised everywhere."
"Furtivenessin Latin is the manner of the thief, who must act very quickly in order to steal from me the words which I have found."
"The space of classification opens unproblematically to the analysis of madness, and madness immediately finds its place there."
"But more often it is solely a question of the familial organization in itself, which is thought to be lived first by the child as a microcosm, then projected into the adult and social development (devenir)."
"Because these signs have crossed a new threshold of deterritorialization."
"It is the monster which combines all the demons."
"Thereafter it becomes no more than a mechanism of the body, a sequence of fantasies, the necessities of delirium."
"There is no question here of concluding."
"It is not, therefore, a question of filling that which cannot be filled."
"The table of the signs will be the image of the things."
"Couthon visited Bic tre to see if the mad that Pinel wished to liberate were in fact suspects."
"Only a few burnt clues: a fear that came back repeatedly over the centuries that madness would rise up and swamp the world; the rituals surrounding the exclusion and inclusion of the madman; that careful attention, from the nineteenth century onwards, that tried to surprise in madness something that would reveal the truth of man; the same impatience that rejected and accepted the words of madness, a hesitancy to recognise their inanity or their decisiveness."
"At the time of Bauz or Condillac, the relation between roots, with their great lability of form, and the meaning patterned out of representations, or again, the link between the power to designate and the power to articulate, was assured by the sovereignty of the Name."
"Darkness for him is another way of seeing the day."
"Bichat, Traite des membranes (Paris, Year Vlll,."
"in which the possibility of Foucault's narration, as well as of the narration of the totality, or rather of all the determined forms of the nothing is less reassuring than the Cogito at its proper and inaugural moment."
"Thus fantasy is never individual: it is group fantasy as institutional analysist has successfully demonstrated."
"It is true that Oedipus begins its cellular, ovular migration in the system of imperial representation: from being at first"
"only the latter may be called Ungrund or groundless."
"Richemont doesn't identify with Louis he lays claim to the premium due the person who traverses all the singularities of the series converging around the machine for kidnapping Louis."
"With regard to memory, it is not similitude in the reminiscence"
"So that everything is perversion."
"And by the grace of one final form of resemblance, which envelops all the others and encloses them within a single circle, the world may be compared to a man with the power of speech: Just as the secret movements of his understanding are manifested by his voice, so it would seem that the herbs speak to the curious physician through their signatures, discovering to him. ."
"Here we touch some of the most extreme forms of the myth of confinement."
"Madness could have the power of an excuse if it was a manifestation of jealousy, obstinacy or fidelity even when it resulted in vengeance."
"What, then, is to be said of the elementary repetition which proceeds by moments, except that it is itself the most relaxed level of this total repetition?"
"In general men were more robust, and more rarely ill, and there were fewer diseases of all varieties."
"He left the train, ran into the space between the outer and inner doors of the room, shutting himself in, saying 'dark,' and ran out again directly."
"On the other hand, there is an intensive space with no other qualification, and within this space a pure energy."
"Phenomenology is therefore much less the resumption of an old rational goal of the West than the sensitive and precisely formulated acknowledgment of the great hiatus that occurred in the modern episteme at the turn of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries."
"Doubtless, cruelty could begin to be practiced within this conflict, but thereby it must also let itself be penetrated."
"But just as Christian reason was divesting itself of the madness that had so long been part of it, the mad were granted a singular power of demonstration, in their abolished reason and animal fury."
"the irreducible difference, the difference between the sexes."
"In this way medicine adopted, as its first approach, the symptomatic method, which 'takes the characteristics of a disease from the invariable phenomena and the obvious symptoms that accompany it'."
"The contrary should be said: neither is there anything in common between the two sexes, nor do they cease communicating with each other in a transverse mode where each subject possesses both of them, but with the two of them partitioned off, and where each subject communicates with one sex or the other in another subject."
"For the I has the rights of an unconscious without which it would not think, and in particular would not think the pure cogitanda."
"Moreover, this element, secondary in its significative value, primary in its formal consistence, is not itself an isolated syllable, like a sort of constant root; it is a system of modifications of which the various segments are interdependent: the letter does not signify the second person in the way that the letter, according to Court de belin, signified breathing, life, and existence; it is the totality of the modifications, that gives the verbal root the values of the first, second, and third person."
"The paranoiac father Oedipalizes the son."
"But is it correct to present things in this way?"
"But it is only in God that speech, as presence, as the origin and horizon of writing, is realized without defect."
"The other is not signaled by his face, he is this face: Absolutely present, in his face, the Other without any metaphor faces me."
"Which in no way implies a confusion of the two concepts, since social repression needs psychic repression precisely in order to form docile subjects and to ensure the reproduction of the social formation, including its repressive structures."
"The two phenomena appear to be simultaneous, but are probably different in nature and meaning: as though the nosological analysis, following a conceptual line or a causal chain, spoke only of and for reason, and had determined nothing of what madness had to say for itself once it was situated inside the space of confinement."
"We noted how, in Proust, the famous pages of Sodom and Gomorrah (Cities of the Plain) interlaced two openly contradictory themes; the fundamental guilt of the accursed races and the radical innocence of flowers."
"(The most important aspect of Schelling's philosophy is his consideration of powers."
"It is amid partial objects and within the nonfamilial relations of desiring production that the child lives his life and ponders what it means to live, even though the question must be related to his parents and the only possible tentative answer must be sought in family relations."
"In effect, the necessity of gaining access to the meaning of the other (in its irreducible alterity) on the basis of its face, that is, its nonphenomenal phenomenon, its nonthematic theme, in other words, on the basis of an intentional modification of my ego (in general), (an intentional modification upon which Levinas indeed must base the meaning of his discourse); and the necessity of speaking of the other as other, or to the other as other, on the basis of its appearing for me as what it is: the other (an which, however, already signifies alteration of the same, of the other as what it is) could be determined rigorously on a purely ethical level, without prior eidetic transcendental analysis of the relations between ego and alter ego in general, betweeen several origins of the world in general."
"existence hereafter ); and for which, finally, the self evident is no longer the fundamental mode of intellection, for which existence is irreducible to the light of the self evident and the drama of existence is played out before light (ibid."
"These latter, even at a remove, were the foundation of all others."
"von Schlegel, On the language and philosophy of the Indians,."
"Or rather, a quasi reason."
"It is also, however, a recommencement on the vertical line which condenses singularities and on which is woven the other repetition, the line of the affirmation of chance."
"opprimee par la medecine moderne (Paris, pp."
"There is no theater in the world today which fulfills Artaud's desire."
"The therapy was both a forcing of the mind 'back into step' and a conversion, as movement prescribed rhythm, and also constituted in its novelty and variety a constant appeal to the spirit to emerge from its own preoccupations and re engage with the world."
", it becomes clear what the function of literature was, in the nineteenth century, in relation to the modern mode of being of language."
"And the space inhabited by immediate resemblances becomes like a vast open book; it bristles with written signs; every page is seen to be filled with strange figures that intertwine and in some places repeat themselves."
"For his part, he is interested in the manner in which the Dreyfus Affair and then World War"
"How strange all this is!"
"Everything seems objectively to be produced by capital as quasi cause."
"For that reason, delirium and dazzlement exist in a relation that is the essence of madness, just as truth and clarity, in their fundamental relation, are constitutive of classical reason."
"In the organic and functional space that it inhabits and whose living unity it ensures, the corporeal soul has its seat, and there too are the instruments and organs of its immediate action."
"In this mirror game, as was the case with silence, madness was constantly called upon to become its own judge."
"During the Spanish Wars of Succession, a man calling himself Count d'Albuterre, whose real name was Doucelin, was sent to the Bastille."
"It banded together a whole group of blameworthy behaviour patterns, creating a halo of guilt around madness."
"coined word (French schize), based on the Greek verb schizein; to split, to cleave, to divide."
"Do not use reasoning, for you will not persuade."
"Only after these initial stages, where they were given the opportunity to demonstrate a willingness to change their ways, should they be given instruction in a trade 'fitting their sex and inclination'."
"However, the eternal return itself, in turning, gives rise to a certain illusion in which it delights and admires itself, and which it employs in order to double its affirmation of that which differs: it produces an image of identity as though this were the end of the different."
"The secret repetition surrounds itself with a mechanical and bare repetition as though this were the final barrier which indicates here and there the outer limits of the differences that it communicates within a mobile system."
"we murmur 'the cows', 'they exaggerate', etc."
"Such, sketched in its most general aspects, is the sixteenth century episteme."
"Must these be understood as compromises and substitutes for incest?"
"When the whole mass of these dream thoughts is brought under the pressure of the dream work, and its elements are turned about, broken into fragments and jammed togetheralmost like pack ice"
"The letter is the separation and limit in which meaning is liberated from its emprisonment in aphoristic solitude."
"That is why the sign of desire, as an economic sign that consists in producing and breaking flows, is accompanied by a sign of necessarily extraeconomic power, although its causes and effects lie within the economy (for example, the sign of alliance in relation to the power of the creditor)."
"These remarks stand for the notion of causality in general."
"The negative, under its double aspect of limitation and opposition, seemed to us in general secondary in relation to the instance of problems and questions: in other words, the negative expresses only within consciousness the shadow of fundamentally unconscious questions and problems, and owes its apparent power to the inevitable place of the 'false' in the natural positing of these problems and questions."
"Oskar Grunow Tucson, Arizona: University of Arizona Press."
"For a hundred and fifty years, the same explanation had been repeated: medicine could gain access to that which founded it scientifically only by circumventing, slowly and prudently, one major obstacle, the opposition of religion, morality, and stubborn prejudice to the opening up of corpses."
"Dumas, Discours sur les progres futurs de la science de I'homme"
"An uncompromising language, rich in promise and ironic in its reductiveness."
"Frazer according to which the law only forbids men to do what their instincts incline them to do;."
"But general paralysis had still another importance as well."
"Due to this fact, they fall within the province of the history of knowledge and the determined structures of phil osophy."
"Whence the three adversaries confronted by Anti Oedipus."
"in the notions of desire under discussion a topic rarely dealt with by militants at that time."
"Montaigne, Essais livre chap."
"In the regional control it exercises over the less fundamental organs, the plan of organic structure plays a less determining role; it becomes more liberal, as it were, as it moves further away from the centre, permitting of modifications, alterations, changes in the possible form or utilization."
"If phenomenology has any allegiance, it is to the discovery of life, work, and language; and also to the new figure which, under the old name of man, first appeared less than two centuries ago; it is to interrogation concerning man's mode of being and his relation to the unthought."
"To Zacchias, the situation had been perfectly clear."
"as truth, it diminished anddominated the counter natural and the fantasies of the imagination."
"My friends, as usual you take for granted the matter at issue."
"In relation to mathesis, taxinomia functions as an ontology confronted by an apophantics; confronted by genesis, it functions as a semiology confronted by history."
"More than anyone, however, Kant wanted to apply the test of truth and falsehood to problems and questions: he even defined Critique in these terms."
"Man is the most blighted and frail of all creatures and, moreover, the most given to pride."
"And, later, Foucault speaks of a madness whose wild state can never be restored in and of itself' and of an inaccessible primitive purity."
"We pass from one field to another by crossing thresholds: we never stop migrating, we become other individuals as well as other sexes, and departing becomes as easy as being born or dying."
"A space that is posited from the very outset in the form of fragmentation."
"But at the same time, how is a new memory to be created for man a collective memory of the spoken word and of alliances that declines the alliances with the extended filiations, that endows him with faculties of resonance and retention, of selection (preLevement) and detachment, and that effects in this way the coding of the flows of desire as a condition of the socius?"
"It assumes its immanent concrete existence only in the subsequent forms that cause it to return under other guises and conditions."
"I cut across families, introducing into them new breaks and new connections resulting in a modification of the heterosexual and homosexual libido (in the decomposed milieu of the Guermantes, for example)."
"Signs, therefore, have no other laws than those that may govern their contents: any analysis of signs is at the same time, and without need for further inquiry, the decipherment of what they are trying to say."
"A certain balance must be kept, of course, between the interests of knowledge and those of the patient; there must he no infringement of the natural rights of the sick, or of the rights that society owes to the poor."
"Abraham submits humorously to the law, but finds in that submission precisely the singularity of his only son whom the law commanded him to sacrifice."
"On the other hand, still in The Savage Mind, he presents as what he calls bricolage what might be called the discourse of this method."
"That is why the law of the falling tendency that is, limits never reached because they are always surpassed and always reproduced"
"(cf, for example, Ideas paragraph passim)."
"Hence, too, the growing role of syntax; at the time of Port Royal, syntax was identified with the construction and ordering of words, and thus with the interior development of the proposition; with Sicard it became independent: it is syntax 'that determines the proper form of each word'."
"They must be replaced, but in and by individuation, in the direction of the individuating factors which consume them and which constitute the fluid world of Dionysus."
"On the one hand was Poverty: the scarcity of foodstuffs and money, an economic situation linked to the state of trade, agriculture and industry."
"There have been, and will be, other distributions of illness."
"The necessity of withdrawing the concepts of trace and of difference from all classical conceptual oppositions."
"The history of the various languages is no longer anything more than a question of erosion or accident, introduction, meetings, and the mingling of various elements; it has no law, no progress, no necessity proper to it."
"Unreason is not outside reason, but precisely in it, invested and possessed by it, turned into an object: for reason, it is what is most interior and also most transparent,"
"Regarding such a field, where were these propositions to be maintained, as concerns their concepts and syntax?"
": today, the analysis is so detailed, the grid so fine, the relations of coordination and subordination are so firmly established, that words scarcely have any opportunity to move from their places."
"The form making a sign and the form being signalized are resemblances, but they do not overlap."
"I enjoys a subsistence, a simplicity and an identity which express the entirety of its resemblance to the divine."
"Either that of making total comparisons, but only within empirically constituted groups in which the number of resemblances is manifestly so high that the enumeration of the differences will not take long to complete; and in this way, step by step, the establishment of all identities and distinctions can be guaranteed."
"This time, the generality is not that of nature but that of habit as a second nature."
"Raise your ass to your mouth,."
"Why should it be in this discourse, which we have seen in forms so faithful to rules of reason, that so many tell tale signs of the absence of reason will be found?"
"Ah, I would envy you hell."
"But we have just seen that the thought of Being is neither ontology, nor first philosophy, nor."
"Despite that, the connection between confinement and medical treatment here is only of a temporal order."
"(In this respect Laing is better able to disengage himself from familialism, thanks to the resources of a flux from the Orient.)"
"This would be again to neglect the indissolubility of the clear and the confused."
"At first sight, it might be thought that this constitutes a reduction of the distance between the knowing subject and the object of knowledge."
"Everything about it is different: its cogs, its sliding carriage, its shears, needles, magnets, rays."
"That the present in general is not primal but, rather, reconstituted, that it is not the absolute, wholly living form which constitutes experience, that there is no purity of the living formidable for metaphysics, which Freud, present"
"seven years according to Gallot, ten according to Cantin; this was because it was now intended to include in the curriculum mathematics, geometry, physics, and chemistry,' all of which had an organic connexion with medical science."
"Artaud ceaselessly repeated this: the origin and urgency of speech, that which impelled him into expression, was confused with his own lack of speech, with having nothing to say in his own name."
"See also the recent attempt by Andre Green, in terms of the advances made in molecular biology: Repetition et instinct de mort;' Revue raru; aise de psvchonalyse,"
"Lastly, when it recurs every fourth, third, second pulsation, or when it is continual, one must expect the haemorrhage within twenty four hours'."
"Perhaps: for here we are touching upon the limits and the not the loss of meaning, but, as we have just read, the relation to this greatest audacities of discourse in Western thought."
"All this is of great importance for the definition of natural history in terms of its object."
"As a result, 'learning' always takes place in and through the unconscious, thereby establishing the bond of a profound complicity between nature and mind."
"It is a question of depth, and of the lower depth which essentially belongs to it."
"Ego loss is the experience of all mankind, of the primal man, of Adam and perhaps even a journey further into the beings of animals, vegetables and minerals."
"Would Levinas subscribe to this infinitely ambiguous sentence from the Book of Questions by Edmond Jabes:"
"And if they are eliminated from psychology, it is not in order to place them in structure."
"Over the heads of the members of the family, and underneath, it is desiringproduction and social production that manifest, through the childhood experience, their identical natures and their differing regimes."
"He uggled with them ceaselessly, but only succeeded In mcreasmg one at the expens of another."
"From the earliest attempts to apply the law, the mad who had been freed from the gaols were sent there, as were the alienated patients who were too numerous at the tel Dieu."
"Thus, in Husserl's mind at least, there was never a structuregenesis problem but only a privilege of one or the other of these two operative concepts, according to the space of description, the quid or the quomodo of the givens."
"This double identity, however, remains static."
"Thus, Rousset invokes the difficulty of gaining access to the simultaneity which is truth within reading, and Richard"
"For to ask ourselves questions about what signification is presupposes that it is a determinate form in our consciousness."
"In the medieval romance of Tristan et Iseut, Tristan is put ashore by the boatmen on the coast of Cornwall, disguised as a madman."
"But one would then be writing only a history of opinions, that is, of the choices representing operated according to individuals, environments, social groups; and a whole method of inquiry is thereby implied."
"And yet astonishing coincidences do appear repeatedly on all sides."
"Further, for the sake of determining an essential Corneillean movement, does one not lose what counts?"
"It would still be necessary to conceive historicity, and the difference between the two impossi bilities, in an unexpected way, and this initial task is not the easiest."
"The representation one makes to oneself of things"
"But it is nothing compared to the other great movement, the one that will be brought about by the decoding of flows."
"The contradictory requirements are satisfied by this double system, and this is precisely the way in which, according to the hypothesis which I mentioned just now, our psychical apparatus performs its perceptual function."
"But from the nineteenth century, literature began to bring language back to light once more in its own being: though not as it had still appeared at the end of the Renaissance."
"My world is the opening in which all experience occurs, including, as the experience par excellence, that which is transcendence toward the Other as such."
"It belongs to the mind, and to relocate an unpolluted body is to reconstitute oneself as a body without a work."
"He must take care they attend divine service, and are orderly at it."
"Cowardice, cruelty, baseness and stupidity are not simply corporeal capacities or traits of character or society; they are structures of thought as such."
"It is art, certainly, but a hidden art"
"As a general rule, State controls and regulations tend to disappear or diminish only in situations where there is an abundant labor supply and an unusual expansion of markets.sv That is, when capitalism functions with a very small number of axioms within relative limits that are sufficiently wide."
"But may the dream as well not use spoken language?"
"As Nietzsche says; churches, armies, States which of all these dogs wants to die?"
"`' Medicine would then he on a level with its truth."
"Pathological anatomy had had no more than a shadowy existence, on the edge of prohibition, sustained only by that courage in the face of malediction peculiar to seekers after secret knowledge; dissection was carried out only under cover of the shadowy twilight, in great fear of the dead: at daybreak, or at the approach of night', Valsalva slipped furtively into graveyards to study at leisure the progress of life and destruction'; later, Morgagni could he seen 'digging up the graves of the dead and plunging his scalpel into corpses taken from their coffins'.'"
"Homo oeconomicus is not the human being who represents his own needs to himself, and the objects capable of satisfying them; he is the human being who spends, wears out, and wastes his life in evading the imminence of death."
"These no longer seem to manifest a will capable of investing an object within the context of a ceremony; rather, they function like reflexes which indicate a general breakdown of investment (whence the impossibility for patients to repeat at will in the tests to which they are subjected)."
"Classical Order, too, could be established as a framework for acquired knowledge, but it was more fundamentally the space in which every being approached man's consciousness; and the Classical metaphysic resided precisely in that gap between order and Order, between classifications and Identity, between natural beings and Nature; in short, between men's perception (or imagination) and the understanding and will of God."
"And it was in that sense that Tuke preferred to the English word 'insane' the French term 'mental alienation': '"
"Ie postulat moitquey."
"Prior to the book (in the nonchronological sense), original illegibility is therefore the very possibility of the book and, within it, of the ulterior and eventual opposition of rationalism and irrationalism."
"Can one respect the Other as Other, and expel negativity labor from transcendence, as Levinas seeks to do?"
"Horne Tooke, On the study of language (London,."
"Incest with the sister is prohibited insofar as the conditions of territorial coding require that alliance not be confounded with filiation; and incest with the mother, insofar as descent within filiation must not be allowed to interfere with ascending lines."
"The philosopher Kierkegaard does not only plead for Soren Kierkegaard, the egoistic cry of a subjectivity still concerned with Kierkegaard's happiness or salvation, but for subjective existence in general (a noncontradictory expression); this is why his discourse is philosophical, and not in the realm of empirical egoism."
"Inenter and the writer of cold dissertations, but is revealed to the truly observant genius'."
"The self preservative drives are, after all, inseparable from the constitution of the reality principle, from the foundation of active synthesis and the active global ego, and from the relations with the real object perceived as satisfying or menacing."
"For us, however, the problem is one of knowing if, indeed, that is where the difference enters in."
"The capitalist style has been described by."
"There is only the social and the metaphysical."
"Hearsay is excluded, that goes without saying; but so are taste and smell, because their lack of certainty and their variability render impossible any analysis into distinct elements that could be universally acceptable."
"The Gaze that envelops, caresses, details, atomizes the most individual flesh and enumerates its secret bites is that fixed, attentive, rather dilated gaze which, from the height of death, has already condemned life."
"But even so, it is not here as we shall see later on that the most decisive importance of psychoanalysis lies."
"Do we teach in our hospitals the art of observing and treating diseases?"
"There is no unity or absolute source of the myth."
"The moral dream was to tame them, but there was something in man that dreamt of living them, or at least of getting close to them and thereby liberating fantasies."
"Where in this entire circuit do we find the production of sexual pleasure?"
"Similarly, 'Those rascals who are waiting for their liberty in order to get themselves hanged, as they are already in chains, why not force them to do tasks that have proved insalubrious for normal workers?"
"Saint Ambrose replies quite unambiguously that it is a second revolt against God.'"
"(De fa grammotologie see reference note pp. ,."
"But since it is what it is only by the letting be of thought, and since the latter is thought only by virtue of the presence of the Being which it lets be, then thought and Being, thought and the other, are the same; which, let us recall, does not mean identical, or one, or equal."
"Thermidor and the Directoire took the clinic as their major theme in the institutional reorganization of medicine: for them, it was a means of putting an end to the dangerous experiment of total liberty, and yet a way of giving it a positive meaning, a way, too, of restoring, as many wished, some of the structures of the Ancien Regime."
"Ideology does not question the foundation, the limits, or the root of representation; it scans thedomain of representations in general; it determines the necessary sequences that appear there; it defines the links that provide its connections; it expresses the laws of composition and decomposition that may rule it."
"But even when the fantasy is interpreted in depth, not simply as an object, but as a specific machine that brings desire itself front and center, this machine is merely theatrical, and the complementarity of what it sets apart still remains: it is now need that is defined in terms of a relative lack and determined by its own object, whereas desire is regarded as what produces the fantasy and produces itself by detaching itself from the object, though at the same time it intensifies the lack by making it absolute: an incurable insufficiency of being, an inability to be that is life itself."
"According to Levinas, the latter always brings the other back into the midst of the same and does so for the benefit of the unity of Being."
"Is it an extrinsic necessity?"
"To establish the possible forms of assistance, it was therefore necessary to define in social man the nature and the limits of feelings of pity, compassion and solidarity that might link him to the rest of mankind."
"A community of nonpresence, and therefore of nonphenomenality."
"In the classical experience, men communicated with madness by means of error, in other words"
"That much becomes apparent when one follows the thread of the classifications from their general order through to the detail of the diseases that were classed: there is always a moment where the great positivist theme classification in accordance with visible signs is rerouted, or finds an obstacle in its path."
"Nietzsche says clearly that if there were identity, if there were an undifferentiated qualitative state of the world or a position of equilibrium for the stars, then this would be a reason never to leave it, not a reason for entering into a cycle."
"In natural history, however, which is a wellconstructed language, these analogies of the imagination cannot have the value of guarantees; and since natural history is threatened, like all language, by the radical doubt that Hume brought to bear upon the necessity for repetition in experience, it must find a way of avoiding that threat."
"We see this clearly in Descartes."
"The knowledge that divined, at random, signs that were absolute and older than itself has been replaced by a network of signs built up step by step in accordance with a knowledge of what is probable."
"Beyond a certain limit, which was defined by space, imagination and the vivacity of the inclination a limit that was more or less consistent with the boundaries of the family home"
"a I'existant will be placed under the sign of the Platonic formulation placing the Good beyond Being."
"The machine taken in its structural unity, the living taken in its specific and even personal unity, are mass phenomena or molar aggregates; for this reason each points to the extrinsic existence the other."
"I see only fools and sots"
"It was as though, in the asylums of the seventeenth century, the figure of the madman simply faded away among many others, so much so that the trace of the mad almost disappears until the moment of reform that immediately preceded the Revolution of."
"If it belongs to the essence of the other first and foremost to be an interlocutor and to be interpellated, then the letting be will let the Other be what it is, will respect it as interpellated interlocutor."
"A man is made neither for a trade, nor for a hospital, nor for a poorhouse: such a prospect is too terrible'.'"
"This is because the two groups are like determinism and freedom in Kant's philosophy: they indeed have the same object and social production is never anything other than desiring production, and vice versa"
"All the interior lines of the painting, and above all those that come from the central re<U+FB02>ection, point towards the very thing that is represented, but absent."
"Psychology regards it as established that the self cannot contemplate itself."
"Can it account for the historical coupling of Judaism and Hellenisrn?"
"Is not God the other name of Being (name because nonconcept), the thinking of which would open difference and the ontological horizon, instead of being indicated in them only?"
"Classical thought defines it according to three variables."
"From the moment when delirium penetrates the field of percipi, the perceived, then despite itself it becomes a part of being, ie it enters into contradiction with its own being, which is non esse, non being."
"They are all more or less naive, more or less empirical, more or less systematic, more or less close to the formulation that is, to the formalization of this circle."
"Physicians dream of remedies"
"Moreover, there will be claimants in third place, fourth place and fifth place, as many as there are images grounded in the hierarchy of this internal resemblance."
"But perhaps this generosity on the part of the mirror is feigned; perhaps it is hiding as much as and even more than it reveals."
"The condition of these links resides henceforth outside representation, beyond its immediate visibility, in a sort of behind the scenes world even deeper and more dense than representation itself."
"`' Thus the family, the natural locus of disease, is duplicated by another space that must reproduce, like a microcosm, the specific configuration of the pathological world."
"If there was a doctor at the pital ral, it was not because of a consciousness that sick people were locked up there, but rather on account of a concern that they might catch and spread a contagious illness. '"
"Thus it can be understood why these broad categories can structure the entire field of the human sciences: it is because they span it from end to end, because they both hold apart and link together the empirical positivities of life, labour, and language (on the basis of which man first detached himself historically as a form of possible knowledge) and the forms of finitude that characterize man's mode of being (as he constituted himself when representation ceased to define the general space of knowledge)."
"this sensory knowledge which nevertheless implies the conjunction of a hospitaldomain and a pedagogicdomain, the lebnition of a field of probability and a linguistic structure of tI"
"Dreaming is then invoked: not that it renders the actuality of the subject less doubtful than madness"
"The signs are no longer inscribed in the flesh itself but on stones, parchments, pieces of currency, and lists."
"Hair, for example the rituals of hair cutting and coiffure: is there any interest in referring these rituals to the phallus entity as signifying the separate thing, and in everywhere"
"Yet they already spoke this language in the city, and spoke it well, by means of the detours of philosophy and despite philosophy's apparent disinterest, notwithstanding its eventual return to power."
"No philosophy responsible for its language can renounce ipseity in general, and the philosophy or eschatology of separation may do so less than any other."
"I can speak of it only by speaking to it; and I may only be Infinity."
"This phenomenon of communication, which Freud touched on only marginally in his remarks on occultism, constitutes in fact the norm, and pushes into the background the problems of hereditary transmission that animated the Freud Jung controversy."
"It matters little that synthetic identity and, following that, the morality of practical reason restore the integrity of the self, of the world and of God, thereby preparing the way for post Kantian syntheses: for a brief moment we enter into that schizophrenia in principle which characterises the highest power of thought, and opens Being directly on to difference, despite all the mediations, all the reconciliations, of the concept"
"In effect, at each step along the way, the lovers develop and grow, not only each one for himself, but through the other and for the other, according to a very Corneillean my italic law of progressively discovered interdependence; their union is made stronger and deeper by the very ruptures that should have destroyed it."
"Only the idea can inject the venom."
"The modern asylum, when one considers the obscure consciousness that justifies it and makes it necessary, is anything but purified from the heritage of the lazar house."
"This tissual sickness may he characterized by three indices."
"Underlining the universal fact that marriage is not an alliance between a man and a woman, but an alliance between two families, a transaction between men concerning women, Georges Devereux drew the correct conclusion of a basic homosexual motivation of a group character.w"
"That which is cancelled changes in it, and in being cancelled allows a glimpse beyond of that which does not change.'"
"Is this the reactivation of a vitalist philosophy?"
"In naming the without reserve of absolute expenditure abstract negativity, Hegel, through precipitation, blinded himself to that which he had laid bare under the rubric of negativity."
"Lacan was the first to emphasize these themes, which were enough to challenge the whole of Oedipus; and he shows the existence of a social complex where the subject at times attempts to assume his own role but at the price of a splitting of the sexual object into a rich woman and a poor woman and at other times ensures the unity of the object, but this time at the price of a splitting of his own social function at the other extremity of the chain."
"This is why destiny accords so badly with determinism"
"Pinel tells several stories that are reminiscent of Voltaire."
"The central te of the exercise."
"It might be said that, of the two directions in physics the molar direction that goes toward the large numbers and the mass phenomena, and the molecular direction that on the contrary penetrates into singularities, their interactions and connections at a distance or between different orders the paranoiac has chosen the first: he practices macrophysics."
"if there is a primitive Oedipus, it is a neg Oedipus, in the sense of a neg entropy."
"This is why modern thought is doomed, at every level, to its great preoccupation with recurrence, to its concern with recommencement, to that strange, stationary anxiety which forces upon it the duty of repeating repetition."
"What is this point of self criticism?"
"This emptiness as the situation of literature must be acknowledged by the critic as that which constitutes the specificity of his object, as that around which he always speaks."
"The ultimate purpose for which inmates were removed from the bustle of the world and placed in this solitude as pensioners was to remove them from the slavery of sin, to prevent them from falling into eternal damnation, and to provide them with the means to perfect happiness both in this life and the next."
"Did not the Kabbala also speak of the unnameable possibility of the Name?"
"And strangely, it is during the course of the eighteenth century, without there being any theoretical or experimental upheavals in pathology, that the theme suddenly changes direction and meaning."
"Difference inhabits repetition."
"Cervantes's hero, construing the relations of world and language as people had done in the sixteenth century, decoding inns into castles and farm girls into ladies with no other key than the play of resemblance, was imprisoning himself without knowing it in the mode of pure representation; but since this representation had no other law but similitude, it could not fail to become visible in the absurd form of madness."
"The Similar has an ontological sense:"
"In the work of Tenon, one can still discern the old idea that the confinement of the mad should only be decreed in a definitive manner once medical treatment had failed: 'Only after using up all possible resources is it permissible to consent to the unfortunate necessity of depriving a citizen of his liberty.'"
"At bottom, it cannot even be analysed as simple dementia either, even though delirious melancholy supposes a similar disorder in the movement of the spirits; mechanical upsets do explain delirium (an error which is common to all forms of madness, dementia and melancholy), but not its particular quality, the colour of the sadness and fear that gives melancholy its unique landscape."
"Such, on the stage of dignity generally ascribed to this word) only articulated language, cruelty, would be spectacle acting not as reflection, but as grammatically articulated language,.e., the language of speech, and of force."
"On pages of the History of Madness, I said that dreams and madness did not at all have the same status nor the same role in the development of Cartesian doubt: dreaming allows me to doubt the place where I am, the paper that I see, and the hand that I stretch out; but madness is in no sense an instrument or a stage of doubt; because 'I, who think, cannot be mad'."
"The great task to which Mallarm dedicated himself, right up to his death, is the one thatdominates us now; in its stammerings, it embraces all our current efforts to confine the fragmented being of language once more within a perhaps impossible unity."
"In point of fact, of the three preceding adventures, the adventure of psychosis is the most intimately related to the process: in the sense of Jaspers' demonstration, when he shows that the demonic ordinarily repressed erupts by means of such a state, or gives rise to such states, which endlessly run the risk of making it topple into breakdown and disintegration."
"You obviously mean distant appearances, or things drawn in perspective."
"We are astonished when we hear that a terminated analysis is by that very fact a failure, even if this proposition is accompanied by the analyst's little smile."
"It is a question of making the difference, thus of operating in the depths of the immediate, a dialectic of the immediate."
"After having suppressed the spectator as such, Chaplin perverts the laughter, which comes to be like so many short circuits of a disconnected piece of machinery."
"To all those who still wish to talk about man, about his reign or his liberation, to all those who still ask themselves questions about what man is in his essence, to all those who wish to take him as their starting point in their attempts to reach the truth, to all those who, on the other hand, refer all knowledge back to the truths of man himself, to all those who refuse to formalize without anthropologizing, who refuse to mythologize without demystifying, who refuse to think without immediately thinking that it is man who is thinking, to all these warped and twisted forms of re<U+FB02>ection we can answer only with a philosophical laugh which means, to a certain extent, a silent one."
"However, irony itself is a multiplicity or rather, the art of multiplicities: the art of grasping the Ideas and the problems they incarnate in things, and of grasping things as incarnations, as cases of solution for the problems of Ideas."
"But is that plenitude not also the ultimate emptiness?"
"it is to the theater of cruelty what the carnival of Nice might be to the mysteries of Eleusis."
"Through a remarkable exposition of the developments of phenomenology, such as were then available from the published works and teachings of the master, and through precautions which already acknowledged the surprises that Husserl's meditations and unpublished works might hold in store, a reticence was announced."
"The conscientious concern for preliminaries is precisely philosophical and Hegelian."
"Both the one and the other are no more than the different extremes of a single movement the phenomenon of passion."
"By its existence alone, the lily of the field sings the glory of the heavens, the goddesses and gods in other words, the elements that it contemplates in contracting."
"It was not alive with contradiction but rather lived split between the two terms of a dichotomy."
"The significance of the author's remark is lost on the English reader since he can indeed say 'I am singing' whereas the Frenchman cannot say 'je suis chantant'."
"The studies of Bohannan concerning the Tiv of the Niger River, or those of Salisbury concerning the Siane of New Guinea, have shown how the introduction of money as an equivalent which makes it possible to begin and end with money, therefore never to end at all is enough to disturb the See Marx, Capital, Vol. ."
"The furtive is fleeting, but it is more than fleeting."
"Indeed, in its viviparous form, reproduction does not merely imply the presence of those organs immediately connected with it; it also requires the existence of organs of lactation, and the possession of lips and a <U+FB02>eshy tongue; on the other hand, it prescribes the existence of warm, circulating blood and the bilocularity of the heart."
"The impossible according to the totality of what is questioned, according to the totality of beings, objects and determinations, the impossible according to the history of facts, has occurred: there is a history of the question, a pure memory of the pure question which in its possibility perhaps authorizes all inheritance and all pure memory in general and as such."
"The inadequation of all speech."
"Madness, religion and time."
"Although they had a presentiment of the subjective nature of wealth, the mercantilists had determined it as a special activity still tied to a money creating despotic machine; the physiocrats, pushing this presentiment still further, had tied."
"It is this force of projection that defines paranoia, this strength to start again from zero, to objectify a complete transformation: the subject leaps outside the intersections of alliancefiliation, installs himself at the limit, at the horizon, in the desert, the subject of a deterritorialized knowledge that links him directly to God and connects him to the people."
"But that in no way diminishes their originality."
"This definition, however, requires us to rid ourselves of an illusion which belongs to the dogmatic image of thought: problems and questions must no longer be traced from the corresponding propositions which serve, or can serve, as responses."
"But rather than ensuring, or tending to ensure, the reversion of the entire unconscious according to the anoedipal form and within the anoedipal content of desiringproduction, analytic theory and practice never cease to promote the conversion of the unconscious to Oedipus, form and content."
"We use the term Libido to designate the specific energy of desiring machines; and the transformations of this energy Numen and Voluptas are never desexualizations or sublimations."
"In order to discover the fundamental groups into which natural beings can be divided, it has become necessary to explore in depth the space that lies between their superficial organs and their most concealed ones, and between these latter and the broad functions that they perform."
"For incest is like this motion, it is impossible."
"From to the time of Tuke, Wagnitz and Pinel, the Brothers of Saint John of God, the Congregationists of Saint Lazarus, the Guardians of Bethlem, Bic tre and the Zuchth user recited the litanies of confinement in their lengthy registers: 'debauched', 'imbecile', 'prodigal', 'infirm', 'of unsound mind', 'libertine', 'ungrateful son', 'dissolute father', 'prostitute', 'insane', and so forth."
"In a world such as this, there is no living desire that could not of itself cause the system to explode, or that would not make the system dissolve at one end where everything would end up following behind and being swallowed up a question of regime."
"The appearance of Sadism comes at a moment when unreason, emerging from a century and a half of silence, reappears not as a figure of the world, nor as an image, but as discourse and desire."
"Land was acquired the following year."
"The hospital is an anachronistic solution that does not respond to the real needs of the poor and that stigmatizes the sick in a state of penury."
"I is clear what psychoanalysis expects to gain from claiming a link, where Oedipus would be the object of repression, and even its subject through the intermediary of the superego."
"Quite as vast, without any doubt, as those brought about by the formation of an economic historicity."
"Bethlem hospital was rebuilt in the second half of the seventeenth century, and in Ned Ward had one character in his novel London Spy remark: '"
"To Verlaine: I will go even further and say: the Book, for I am convinced that there is only One, and that it has unwittingly been attempted by every writer, even by Geniuses."
"At the frontier of the two significations, Corvisart defined organic disease by the fact that `an organ, or any solid living thing, is as a whole or in one of its parts degenerated enough from its natural condition for its easy, regular, constant action to be endangered or disordered in a perceptible and permanent way'."
"His torture had been his glory: his deliverance was his humiliation."
"This simultaneity also proves, on both sides, the penetration of reason into thedomain of madness, which it had attempted to banish through confinement."
"The animal is protected by specific forms which prevent it from being 'stupid' bete."
"The human sciences are not, then, an analysis of what man is by nature; but rather an analysis that extends from what man is in his positivity (living, speaking, labouring being) to what enables this same being to know (or seek to know)"
": depraved tastes, bulimia, polydipsia, satyriasis, erotomania, nostalgia, Saint Vitus dance, rage, hydrophobia, cacosity, antipathy, anxiety Weickhard Der Philosophische Arzt)"
"For its part, the theory of money and trade explains how any given form of matter can take on a signifying function by being related to an object and serving as a permanent sign for it; it also explains (by the interaction of trade and the increase and diminution of the quantity of specie) how this relation of sign to the thing signified can be modified without ever disappearing, how the same monetary element can signify more or less wealth, how it can shift, dilate, and shrink in relation to the values it has the task of representing."
"Accordingly, Nietzsche indicates the terrifying conservatism of such a conception."
"This (non) being which corresponds to the form of a problematic field, even though the modalities of proposition tend to assimilate it to negative non being, reappears with the so called expletive 'Ne' which grammarians have so much difficulty in interpreting: like the witness of an extra propositional grammatical instance, an expletive 'Ne' always appears in propositions where there is a question developed into a problem."
"For the theater of cruelty is not a new theater destined to escort some new novel that would modify from within an unshaken tradition."
"And yet, as we have seen, if there is one problem that does not exist in schizophrenia, it is the problem of identifications."
"The paranoiac engineers sses, he th artist of the large molar aggregates, the statistical formations or greg ousnesses, the phenomena of organized crowds."
"The generalized slavery of the despotic State at least implied the existence of masters, and an apparatus of antiproduction distinct from the sphere of production."
"This reasoning was expounded quite bluntly in a text inspired by the Papal court in which was translated into French at the close of the century under the title La Mendicit abolie (Begging Vanquished)."
"From this point of view, we must essentially distinguish between the pure form and the empirical contents."
"The Verfremdungseffekt remains the prisoner of a classical paradox and of the European ideal of art which attempts to cast the mind into an attitude distinct from force but addicted to exaltation. ."
"We are always on this side of incest, in a series of intensities that is ignorant of discernible persons; or else beyond incest, in an extension that recognizes them, that constitutes them, but that does not constitute them without rendering them impossible as sexual partners."
", necessarily a certain Being in the world of the psyche did not happen to memory from without,"
"What the medicine of species called nature is shown to be merely the discontinuity of heterogeneous and artificial conditions; the `artificial' diseases of the hospital permit pathological events to be reduced to the homogeneous; the hospitaldomain is no doubt not pure transparency to truth, but the refraction that is proper to it makes possible, through its constancy, the analysis of truth."
"Whence the idea that the stimuli are not organizers, but mere inductors: ultimately, the nature of these inductors is a matter of indifference."
"This meant that for the whole of Paris and its environs there was a sum total of seventy four beds for all the mad who were considered curable seventy four beds that were effectively a waiting room for confinement, which signified a fall from the world of illness, medicine and possible cure."
"In this fundamental articulation of the visible, the first confrontation of language and things can now be established in a manner that excludes all uncertainty."
"With the revolutions in the history of the earth, the taxonomic area (in which adjacencies are of the order of character and not of modus vivendi) was divided up into a concrete and geographical area that jumbled it all up."
"Under the reign of Henri the statutes stipulate vaguely worded fines, followed by 'exemplary and extraordinary' punishments."
"Tuke's enterprise fits neatly into the great legal reorganisation of assistance in the late eighteenth century, a series of measures that allowed the bourgeois State to invent, for its own requirements, private welfare."
"And does so according to a schema that seems to us to support the entirety of Levinas's thought: the other is the other only if his alterity is absolutely ities through its freedom of speech, the face is not of this world."
"So much precision is not, however, comparative anatomy except to an eye armed with nineteenth century knowledge."
"We are inclined to believe that man has emancipated himself from himself since his discovery that he is not at the centre of creation, nor in the middle of space, nor even, perhaps, the summit and culmination of life; but though man is no longer sovereign in the kingdom of the world, though he no longer reigns at the centre of being, the 'human sciences' are dangerous intermediaries in the space of knowledge."
"Only those who cannot read will be surprised that I have learned such a thing more clearly from Cuvier, Bopp, and Ricardo than from Kant or Hegel."
"In this sense, every philosophy of categories takes judgement for its model as we see in the case of Kant, and still even in the case of Hegel."
"No gaze is stable, or rather, in the neutral furrow of the gaze piercing at a right angle through the canvas, subject and object, the spectator and the model, reverse their roles to infinity."
"For Heidegger, it is therefore metaphysics (or metaphysical on tology) which remains a closure of the totality, and transcends the existent only toward the (superior) existent, or toward the (finite or infinite) totality of the existent."
"But in the vocabulary of confinement, the words said both much more and much less, alluding to the forms of violence that escape the rigorous definition of crime and its juridical assignation, denoting an undifferentiated region of disorder a disorder of the spirit, or a disordered way of life, a whole obscure region of menacing rage that did not yet form grounds for a possible condemnation."
"Everywhere, the depth of difference is primary."
"If those arrangements were to disappear as they appeared, if some event of which we can at the moment do no more than sense the possibility without knowing either what its form will be or what it promises were to cause them to crumble,"
"Oedipus is virtual and reactional."
"What is at stake is not merely art or."
"It is on the basis of this order, taken as a firm foundation, that general theories as to the ordering of things, and the interpretation that such an ordering involves, will be constructed."
"The horse is named Sus, thought to be from the verb Hasas, unless that verb is rather derived from the noun, and it signifies to rise up, for among all four footed animals"
"et ps ych analvse (Paris: Presses Universitaires de France."
"man's externalization in the thing has merely become the act of externalizing the process of alienating."
"While tradition was content to compare the delirium of the mad and the vividness of dream images, the classical age assimilates delirium to the indissoluble nexus of the image and the night of the spirit against which it gains its freedom."
"But a second question immediately arises: Under what form is repetition affirmed and prescribed by the death instinct?"
"(Freud had no more reserved the image of the feeler for the unconscious"
"This ideational rubbish out of which our world has erected its cultural edifice is now, by a critical irony, being given its poetic immolation, its mythos, through a kind of writing"
"It is always by an unveiling that they are able, as a consequence, to become sufficiently generalized or refined to conceive of individual phenomena."
"Such thinking has no result."
"In any event, the incommensurable destiny which grafts the history of a race born of the book (Livre des questions,."
"'transcendental philosophy' the discontinuous coefficients assume a signification only by virtue of the differential functions which compose them."
"Whereupon there is formed the theme of a pure theory of language which would provide the ethnology and the psychoanalysis thus conceived with their formal model."
"Which is to take seriously the reality of the external world."
"But this is surely a project on history, an old theory of' know ledge whose effects and misdeeds have long been known."
"My life, from the book on, will have been a vigil of writing in the interval of limits."
"Returning is the becoming identical of becoming itself."
"The monstrous quality that runs through Borges's enumeration consists, on the contrary, in the fact that the common ground on which such meetings are possible has itself been destroyed."
"The most that could be hoped for was to integrate them into a family environment, while forbidding families with dangerous madmen in their entourage to allow them to circulate freely."
"At the edges of the community, at town gates, large, barren, uninhabitable areas appeared, where the disease no longer reigned but its ghost still hovered."
"But demobilised soldiers, the confined who were waiting to be sent to the new colonies and competition from English factories combined to produce widespread unemployment, so much so that rioting or a massive exodus of the population were equally feared: The factories of which we thought so highly are closing everywhere: Lyon is suffering tremendously, more than workers are now beggars in Rouen, and the same can be observed in Tours and elsewhere."
"Lacan shows that real objects are subjected to the law of being or not being somewhere, by virtue of the reality principle; whereas virtual objects, by contrast, have the property of being and not being where they are, wherever they go: what is hidden is never but what is missing from its place, as the call slip puts it when speaking of a volume lost in the library."
"It was thought of as being the natural complement of the constraints imposed on maniacs and the frenzied, and the dream was of a training whereby each fit of anger in a maniac would be immediately accompanied and compensated by a reaction of fear:"
"The universal in relation to a quality must not, therefore, be confused with the individual values it takes in relation to another quality."
"In contrast, the analysis of man's mode of being as it has developed since the nineteenth century does not reside within a theory of representation; its task, on the contrary, is to show how things in general can be given to representation, in what conditions, upon what ground, within what limits they can appear in a positivity more profound than the various modes of perception; and what is then revealed, in this coexistence of man and things, through the great spatial expanse opened up by representation, is man's radical finitude, the dispersion that at the same time separates him from his origin and promises it to him, and the insuperable distance of time."
"The relations between the elements of the proposition are identical with those of representation; but this identity is not carefully arranged point by point, so that every substance is designated by a substantive and every accident by an adjective."
"For man, the eventuality of being mad and the possibility of being an object came together in the late eighteenth century, and that meeting led directly and unambiguously (there is no chance coincidence in the dates here) to the postulates of positive psychiatry and the themes of an objective science of man."
"It would serve little purpose to dispute them, as we have too few documents that are more trustworthy at our disposal."
"The former, in effect, are not universals like the categories, nor are they the hie et nunc or now here, the diversity to which categories apply in representation."
"This is a problem that haunts the medicine of the eighteenth century, and a problem that turns hypochondria and hysteria into diseases 'of the nervous stock'."
"These two sets were not opposed, and were more than complementary; they were the same thing the coherent unity of a gesture through which madness was offered to knowledge in a structure that was alienating from the very first."
"Once it lends itself a single time to such a representation that is to say, once it is written when one can read a book in the book, an origin in the origin, a center in the center, it is the abyss, is the bottomlessness of infinite redoubling."
"I adopt this term from an opinion, that the ali of the French, conveys a more just idea of this disorder, than those expressions which imply, in any degree, the 'abolition of the thinking capacity'.'"
"D'Argenson wrote the following regarding a woman named Gohart: 'Her madness often descends into frenzy, and judging by appearances, would lead her either to murder her husband or to do away with herself at the earliest opportunity.'"
"In this reduction to animality, madness found its truth and its cure."
"more es r:ement with Reuleaux's classic definition"
"Hegel hastily gets rid of them: he knows no other aim than knowledge."
"It seems that the pathological incisor is indeed mainly that of the maternal grandfather."
"Bic tre is a word that no one can utter without a feeling of repugnance, horror or scorn"
"At first sight, it is tempting to classify Rameau's Nephew among the ancient lineage of fools and clowns, and restore to him all the powers of irony with which those figures had been entrusted."
"Behind every investment of time and interest and capital, an investment of desire, and vice versa."
"In with the founding of the 'Compagnie d'Occident', the exploitation of the Americas became an integral part of the French economy."
"It was in this other world, surrounded by the sacred powers of labour, that madness was to take on the status still familiar to us."
"The unconscious poses no problem of meaning, solely problems of use."
"I have spoken to her on two occasions, and despite the fact that over the course of the last few years I have become accustomed to hearing impudent and ridiculous opinions, I couldn't help but be surprised by the reasoning that the woman employs to support her system."
"The ultimate concepts or primary and originary predicates must therefore be posited as determinable."
"But to the extent that this flattening induces a fictitious voice from on high that no longer expresses itself except in the linear flux, the despot himself is the signifier of the voice that, along with the two signifieds, effects the overcoding of the whole chain."
"A scar is the sign not of a past wound but of 'the present fact of having been wounded': we can say that it is the contemplation of the wound, that it contracts all the instants which separate us from it into a living present."
"Infinite representation may well multiply points of view and organise these in series; these series are no less subject to the condition of converging upon the same object, upon the same world."
"It is this that gives Pinel's work its meaning and its curious prestige."
"For almost two centuries, the signs that for nineteenth century psychiatry were to become the tell tale symptoms of illness remained 'between impiety and eccentricity', half way between the profanatory and the pathological, precisely where unreason came into its own."
"In fact, this couple is completely internal to representation, serving to define its first state as this was established by Aristotle."
"You perceive that there is always a sort of constancy in the secondary characters in accordance with their disguise'."
"Kierkegaard against Hegel, Nietzsche against Kant and Hegel; and from this point of view, guy against the Sorbonne)."
"Each visibly distinct part of a plant or an animal is thus describable in so far as four series of values are applicable to it."
"That is why Plato determines the conditions in the form of reminiscence, not innateness."
"In this sense, we believe in a biochemistry of schizophrenia (in conjunction with the biochemistry of drugs), that will be progressively more capable of determining the nature of this egg and the distribution of field gradient threshold."
"For there is no repetition without a repeater, nothing repeated without a repetitious soul."
"There were times of growth of the confined population, like the Seven Years War, and there were times when demand was much higher, when the confined population was easily dispatched to the Americas."
"Anatomy could become pathological only insofar as the pathological spontaneously anatomizes."
"The center of the first book should not have been repeatable in its own representation."
"Melanie Klein herself writes: The first time Dick came to me."
"Bic tre therefore became the main centre to which the insane were sent, particularly after the closure of Saint Lazare."
"Levinas says that the primacy of ontology does not rest on a truism."
"The only normative observer is the totality of observers: the errors produced by their individual points of view are distributed in a totality that possesses its own powers of indication."
"The geometric or morphological elements of Forme et Signification are corrected only by a kind of mechanism, never by energetics."
"Partial objects hence appear to her to be derived from (pnileves sur) global persons; not only are they destined to play a role in totalities aimed at integrating the ego, the object, and drives later in life, but they also constitute the original type of object relation between the ego, the mother, and the father."
"But is not the foundation of this possibility still too classical?"
"Labour and poverty face each other in a simple opposition, and thedomain of the one is in inverse proportion to that of the other."
"On this basis, philosophy is able to begin."
"In the French this phrase reads:. ."
"Between the intensive and thought, it is always by means of an intensity that thought comes to us."
"The clinician's description, like the philosopher's analysis, proffers what is given by the natural relation between the operation of consciousness and the sign."
"A general reorganisation took place at the beginning of the seventeenth century, and a fine of five pounds was to be levied on any Justice of the Peace who did not have a house of correction in his jurisdiction."
"This was because this very tearing meant that it was not possible to appreciate madness as a unique point, a focus, at once imaginary and real, reflecting the questions human beings ask about themselves."
"The capture of madness by an inviolable space that was to be a place of manifestation and a space of cure."
"Cuvier, Le gne animal distribu d'apr son organisation,."
"It is in this strict sense that language is an analysis of thought: not a simple patterning, but a profound establishment of order in space."
"They're as bored as dogs …'"
"The family or entourage made a request to the king, who accepted it and granted it after it had been signed by a minister."
"This is the case even in the peripheral zones of capitalism, where the colonizer's efforts at oedipalizing the indigenous population African Oedipus find themselves contradicted by the breakup of the family along the lines of social exploitation and oppression."
"Therefore I must not eat.'"
"This experience was transcribed, when reflected, in terms of a theory of the imagination to be found at the heart of all classical thought concerning madness."
"Oedipus is a means of integration into the group, in both the adaptive form of its own reproduction that makes it pass from one generation to the next, and in its unadapted neurotic stases that block desire at prearranged impasses."
"Hence the importance assumed with the appearance pathological anatomy by the concept of `degeneration'."
"all that the sixteenth century had accepted into the prolix totality of an imaginary world, the nineteenth century was to divide according to the rules of moral perception: it was to recognise two forms of madness, good and bad one whose confused presence was accepted on the margins of reason, in the play between morality and bad conscience, and responsibility and innocence, and the other that bore the full weight of the ancient anathema, and of irreparable offence."
"Two systems will thus be necessary in a single machine."
"Energy in general will not then be confused with a uniform energy at rest, which would render any transformation impossible."
"His whole journey is a quest for similitudes: the slightest analogies are pressed into service as dormant signs that must be reawakened and made to speak once more."
"Psychoanalysis, no less than the bureaucratic or military apparatus, is a mechanism for the absorption of surplus value, nor is this true from the outside, extrinsically; rather, its very form and its finality are marked by this social function."
"The task is not, thereli)re, one of correlation, but, purely and simply, of redistribution )"
"Nothing resisted longer than iron, and no substance was more obedient."
"Mania becomes the paroxysm of tension in the fibres, and the maniac is like a musical instrument whose strings, excessively stretched, vibrate under the slightest and most remote of stimulations."
"The justice that was to reign inside asylums would no longer be that of punishment, but that of truth: there was to be an exact measurement of the exercise of liberty and of its restrictions, and as rigorous a conformity as possible between constraints and the alienation of liberty."
"And secondly, the causes that produce nervous diseases in particular have multiplied in a greater proportion for some time now than other general causes of disease, some of which are even seeming to diminish It is safe to say that if in previous times they were rarer, today they are the most frequent variety."
"They will become so, but only in being actualised by the action of this field which it constitutes."
"The practical consciousness of madness, which seems to define itself only by the transparency of its finality, is without doubt the densest form of that consciousness, its schematic ceremonies heavy with ancient drama."
"It was not therefore surprising that houses of confinement had the appearance of prisons, and that often the one was taken for the other, so much so that at times the mad were placed in both almost indiscriminately."
"This tension is quite novel, and leads to a combination of the artistic machine, the revolutionary machine, and the analytical machine a combination of three modes of knowledge the intuitive, the practical, and the reflective, which all become joined as bits and pieces of one and the same strategical machine whose target is the ego and the fascist in each of us."
"The history of madness would be the history of the Other of that which, for a given culture, is at once interior and foreign, therefore to be excluded (so as to exorcize the interior danger) but by being shut away (in order to reduce its otherness); whereas the history of the order imposed on things would be the history of the Same of that which, for a given culture, is both dispersed and related, therefore to be distinguished by kinds and to be collected together into identities."
"Difference in the will to power is the highest object of sensibility, the hohe Stimmung, sensed against the laws of nature (remember that the will to power was first presented as a feeling, a feeling of distance)."
"I mean those families like my own, that owe all to the Declaration of the Rights of Man"
"What passes through leads to as compensation for what is blocked a veritable surplus value of code, which falls to the uncle insofar as he causes passage, while he suffers a kind of minus value insofar as he does the blocking (thus the ritual thefts perpetrated by the nephews in the uncle's house, but also, as Griaule says, the augmentation and fructification of the uncle's possessions when the oldest of the nephews comes to live with him)."
"And this event was itself produced in a general redistribution of the episteme: when, abandoning the space of representation, living beings took up their places in the specific depths of life, wealth in the onward thrust of new forms of production, and words in the development of languages."
"The word nudity thus destroys itself after serving to indicate something beyond itself."
"repetitions, substitutions, transformations, and permutations are always taken from a history of meaning sens that is, in a word, a history whose origin may always be reawakened or whose end may always be anticipated in the form of presence."
"This is why the book is never finite."
"In this way a certain supervision would be exercised over the doctors themselves; abuses would be prevented and quacks forbidden to practise, and, by means of an organized, healthy, rational medicine, home care would prevent the patient's becoming a victim of medicine and avoid exposure to contagion of the patient's family."
"Because the fault against philosophy is close to the slip, it will be 'revelatory' in the same way: the smallest 'snag' will suffice for the whole apparatus to be laid bare."
"For Whytt, in the mid eighteenth century, the assimilation has become complete, and the symptomatic system is henceforth identical:"
"However, this 'Everything is equal' and this 'Everything returns' can be said only at the point at which the extremity of difference is reached."
"In England, the rules of the workhouses stressed the importance of watching over the morals of the inmates, and instilling in them a religious education."
"For Morgagni, the seat was the point of insertion in the organism of the chain of causalities; it was identified with its ultimate link."
"This active synthesis of memory is founded upon the passive synthesis of habit, since the latter constitutes the general possibility of any present."
"is often asserted that Adam Smith founded modern political economy"
"We have attempted to read Foucault Let us now naivelytt."
": the subjects of psychoanalysis arrive already oedipalized, they demand it, they want more."
"It is a world where an imperceptible form of heat is everywhere apparent, a dry and brittle world, capable of being softened by any damp freshness."
"It is strange that the psychology of crime, in its most rudimentary aspects or at least the desire to go back to its origins in the hearts of men was not born of any humanisation of justice, but out of a supplementary requirement of morality, a sort of moral conversion by the state itself, and a refinement of various forms of indignation."
"The seventeenth century discovered it in the loss of truth: an entirely negative possibility, where the only thing in question was that faculty of waking and attention in man that was not nature but freedom."
"The book often leads one to believe it is all fun and games, when something essential is taking place, something of extreme seriousness: the tracking down of all varieties of fascism, from the enormous ones that surround and crush us to the petty ones that constitute the tyrannical bitterness of our everyday lives."
"In order to reach this conclusion a new confrontation was required."
"This becomes even more clear when Freud elaborates the entire historico mythical series: at one end the Oedipal bond is established by the murderous identification, at the other end it is reinforced by the restoration and internalization of paternal authority revival of the old state of things at a new level."
"He begins by marrying the sister."
"The net is so loose that the largest fish pass through."
"The paradoxes of the classical experience then become more explicable: madness is always absent, in perpetual, inaccessible retreat, with no phenomenal or positive character, and yet it is present and perfectly visible in the unmistakably singular appearance of the madman."
"when the vessels and fibres have neither too much nor too little tone, when the fluids have just the right consistency, when they have neither too much nor too little movement, man is in a state of health;"
"To be sure, Bataille sometimes opposes poetic, ecstatic sacred speech to significative discourse But intelligence, the discursive thought of Man, developed as a function of servile work."
"Infinite representation invokes a foundation."
"Cabanis, Coup d'oeil sur les Revolutions et la Reforrne de la medecine (Paris,. ."
"Reminiscence does not simply refer us back from a present present to former ones, from recent loves to infantile ones, from our lovers to our mothers."
"The protestations of doctors multiplied right up to the end of the classical age."
"After which come currents, affluents, influences."
"In effect, thought is covered over by an 'image' made up of postulates which distort both its operation and its genesis."
"It is to be found in the search for difference: will I be able to incorporate the themes proposed into my meditation?"
"The system is populated by subjects, both larval subjects and passive selves: passive selves because they are indistinguishable from the contemplation of couplings and resonances;"
"It would then he necessary to restore within each system the appearance assumed by the pathological phenomena according to the tissue."
"It is in them that what we imagine becomes what we know, and, on the other hand, that what we know becomes what we represent to ourselves every day."
"That is, if you will, language arises with the sun."
"Without this examination, and as Foucault does not proceed in a simply aprioristic fashion, his historical description poses the banal but inevitable problems of periodization and of geographical, political, ethnological limitation, etc."
"First, the value of things will no longer proceed from the metal itself; it establishes itself by itself, without reference to the coinage, according to the criteria of utility, pleasure, or rarity."
"To be sure, it is not psychoanalysis that makes us believe: Oedipus and castration are demanded, then demanded again, and these demands come from elsewhere and from deeper down."
"The madman is too immediate to the senses for the general discourses of madness to be recognised in him."
"Life is no longer that which can be distinguished in a more or less certain fashion from the mechanical; it is that in which all the possible distinctions between living beings have their basis."
"I must first hear myself In soliloquy as in dialogue, to speak is to hear oneself As soon as I am heard, as soon as I hear myself, the I who hears itself who hears me, becomes the I who speaks and takes speech from the I who thinks that he speaks and is heard in his own name; and becomes the I who takes speech without ever cutting off the I who thinks that he speaks."
"Moreover, it is always something like an opening which will frustrate the structuralist project."
"The existence of this opposition is to be explained by the bipolar character of the models: analysis in a continuous mode relies upon the permanence of function (which is to be found in the very depths of life in an identity that authorizes and provides roots for succeeding adaptations), upon the interconnection of con<U+FB02>icts (they may take various forms, but they are always present in the background), upon the fabric of significations (which link up with one another and constitute, as it were, the continuous expanse of a discourse); on the contrary, the analysis of discontinuities seeks rather to draw out the internal coherence of signifying systems, the specificity of bodies of rules and the decisive character they assume in relation to what must be regulated, and the emergence of the norm above the level of functional <U+FB02>uctuations."
"Are we to believe, then, that social investments are secondary projections, as if a large two headed schizonoiac, father of the primitive horde, were at the base of the socius in general?"
"Every phenomenon flashes in a signal sign system."
"Reminiscence is still a refuge for the recognition model, and Plato no less than Kant traces the operation of the transcendental memory from the outlines of its empirical exercise (we see this clearly in the account of the Phaedo)."
"But this shift was paralleled by another: that which caused the first term in each of the constituent pairs (function, con<U+FB02>ict, signification) to recede, and the second term (norm, rule, system) to emerge with a correspondingly greater intensity and importance: Goldstein, Mauss, Dumezil may be taken to represent, as near as makes no difference, the moment at which the reversal took place within each of the models."
"From this point of view, Hegel is the culmination of a long tradition which took the question 'What is X?'"
"We perceive things that are currently going on around us in a light that is still dim; and yet, in our language, a strange movement can be discerned."
"And it is true that once the question and the privileged difficulty are understood, to devote a preliminary work to them would have entailed the sterilization or paralysis of all further inquiry."
"These are two quite different diseases."
"historians have not yet enlightened us on this"
"The signifier is the sign that has become a sign of the sign, the despotic sign having replaced the territorial sign, having crossed the threshold of deterritorialization; the signifier is merely the deterritorialized sign itself."
"What we mean is that, starting from the same postulate, Jung is led to restore the most diffuse and tS spiritualized religiosity, whereas Freud is confirmed in his most rigorous atheism."
"They are certainties and truths of a nonsensory"
"As Marx notes, what exists in fact is not lack, but passion, as a natural and sensuous object."
"Direct, because it is no longer necessary to pass through pure representations of the absolutely primitive root; it is enough to study the modifications of the radical, the system of in<U+FB02>ections, the series of variable terminations."
"Was not the mistake of the modern interpretation of calculus to condemn its genetic ambitions under the pretext of having discovered a 'structure' which dissociated calculus from any phoronomic or dynamic considerations?"
"But since this cost (wages, capital and income, profits) is in every case determined by labour already accomplished and applied to this new production, we see the emergence of a great linear, homogeneous series, which is that of production."
"It is in no way a method of determining species, but one of selection."
"The day was soon to come when Mirabeau would recognise in the shameful promiscuity of madness both a subtle means of silencing those one wanted to crush and the image of despotism, the triumph of bestiality."
"He observed that a six line cube taken from the brain of a subject who had died in a normal state of health, who had never suffered from any serious illness, weighed dram and grains, while a section from the brain of a young man who had died of consumption only weighed dram and and grains, and one from his cerebellum weighed dram and grains."
"From this still initial starting point, the consciousness of madness is self assured, that is, confident that it itself is not mad."
"Lindner's painting attracts our attention once again."
"The first synthesis, that of habit, is truly the foundation of time; but we must distinguish the foundation from the ground."
"Anyone not belonging to either of these two categories who dabbled in medicine would incur penalties ranging from a fine to imprisonment."
"Spatio temporal relations no doubt retain multiplicity, but lose inferiority; concepts of the understanding retain inferiority, but lose multiplicity, which they replace by the identity of an"
"This scandal is the incest prohibition."
"The idea, in short, was to build asylums equal to their true nature as cages."
"hardly matters is lived in its meaning, and sexual maturation is not the accidental form of this delay."
"This 'libertinage' did not simply refer to their refusal to comply with the great obligation to work, but was a moral question: Experience has demonstrated to those who work in these charitable institutions that many of these people live together as man and wife out of wedlock, many of their offspring are strangers to baptism, and that almost all live in ignorance of religion, scorn the sacraments and continually give themselves over to vices of all sorts."
"The hospital, which creates disease by means of the enclosed, pestilentialdomain that it constitutes, creates further disease in the social space in which it is placed."
"It is also that which sees."
"Therefore let notices be placed over the gates of these asylums announcing their coming disappearance."
"Aikin, Observations sur les pitaux (Fr. trans., Paris, pp. ."
"It is indeed a question of the complete determination of the parts of the object: it is now in the object, and therefore on the curve, that the elements which present the previously defined 'linear' relation must be found."
"But Nietzsche was certain that the writer would never be upright; that writing is first and always something over which one bends."
"When it had at last become clear that it was impossible to fit the entire world into the laws of rectilinear movement, when the complexity of the vegetable and animal kingdoms had sufficiently resisted the simple forms of extended substance"
"Common sense is there only in order to limit the specific contribution of sensibility to the conditions of a joint labour: it thereby enters into a discordant play, its organs become metaphysical."
"In effect, for representation the I is not only the superior form of individuation but the principle of recognition and identification for all judgements of individuality bearing upon things: 'It is the same wax.'."
"There are only resistances, and then machines desiring machines."
"It matters little for the key point is precisely that ambiguity that was to mark the rest of his work, and the meaning it was to take on for the modern world: the constitution of adomain in which madness appears in its pure truth, both objective and innocent, but a constitution indefinitely delayed, each of the figures of madness blending in with non madness in an inextricable proximity."
"Some had a special status."
"Permit me to hold off on this question."
"Pinel's political task was to unravel the knot, and operate a division so that a single rigorous unity emerged for discursive knowledge: madness, its objective truth and its innocence."
"What does Nietzsche mean, this man who dragged Caesar along with him as a despotic signifier, along with its two signifieds his sister and his mother, and who felt their weight grow heavier as he drew nearer to madness?"
"The artist is the master of objects; he puts before us shattered, burned, broken down objects, converting them to the regime of desiring machines, breaking down is part of the very functioning of desiring machines; the artist presents paranoiac machines, miraculating rnachines, and celibate machines as so many technical machines, so as to cause desiring machines to undermine technical machines."
"In the system of exchanges, in the interplay that permits each portion of wealth to signify the others or to be signified by them, value is at the same time verb and noun, power to connect and principle of analysis, attribution, and pattern."
"The critical question did exist in the eighteenth century, but linked to the form of a determinate knowledge."
"Elusion is produced as the original enigma, that is to say, as the speech or history (ainos) which hides its origin and meaning; it never says where it is going, nor where it is coming from, primarily because it does not know where it is coming from or going to, and because this not knowing, to wit, the absence of its own subject, is not subsequent to this enigma"
"I am thinking in particular, and in passing, of what is translated by madness and fury in the Philebus e)."
"As Le Bel said, stating it as a fundamental principle of analysis, 'there is no group of which the parts have not existed separately before being grouped together'; this enabled him to reduce all words to syllabic elements in which the old forgotten names at last made their reappearance the only vocables that possessed the possibility of existing side by side with the verb to be: Romulus, for example, comes from Roma and moliri (to build); and Roma comes from ro, which denoted strength (robur) and ma, which denoted magnitude (magnus)."
"And representation, freed finally from the relation that was impeding it, can offer itself as representation in its pure form."
"The same goes for hierarchy."
"A problem of translation, a philosophical problem of translation is posed and it is serious even if Hybris is not Madness for Foucault."
"And yet madness is there in both, in a particular figure of their relation."
"But why call this new form of energy divine, why label it Numen, in view of all the ambiguities caused by a problem of the unconscious that is only apparently religious?"
"The 'anatomy' of language, to use Grimm's expression, functions on the other hand within the element of History:"
"at least contribute to the training of good doctors and repay their benefactors with interest'."
"It is here that art accedes to its lii'O I authentic modernity, which simply consists in liberating what was present in art from its beginnings, but was hidden underneath aims and objects, even if aesthetic, and underneath recodings or axiomatics: the pure process that fulfills itself, and that never ceases to reach fulfillment as it proceeds art as experimentation.'"
"The perspective distribution, which enables us to see in paralysis a symptom, in syncope an episode, and in apoplexy an organic and functional attack, does not exist for the classificatory gaze, which is sensitive only to surface divisions, in which vicinity is not defined by measurable distances but by formal similarities."
"It is very important to distinguish between consumable and non consumable materials; it is also very important to appreciate that quite intangible elements such as 'rights' and 'prestige' form part of the total inventory of 'things' exchanged (pp."
"That is why it is so important to see debt as a direct consequence of the primitive inscription process, instead of making it and the inscriptions themselves into an indirect means of universal exchange."
"Naturally, it is not our intention to place the Being of the ideal on the same level as the Being thought of the fictional or the absurd."
"The differential of the Idea is itself inseparable from the process of repetition which defined the throw of the dice."
"This was because as well as all its virtues, iron has the remarkable property of transmitting its power directly and without any intermediary or transformation."
"If Hegel discovers in serene representation the intoxication and restlessness of the infinitely large, Leibniz discovers in the clear, finite idea the restlessness of the infinitely small, a restlessness also made up of intoxication, giddiness, evanescence and even death."
", the other according to which machines are never more than extensions of the organism ('The lower animals keep all their limbs at home in their bodies, but many of man's are loose, and lie about detached, now here and now there."
"However, we wished to show the coexistence of these instances in every repetitive structure, to show how repetition displays identical elements which necessarily refer back to a latent subject which repeats itself through these elements, forming an 'other' repetition at the heart of the first."
"And what is the historico semantic relationship between genesis and structure in general?"
"The non being that it was becomes the power to destroy."
"Where these are not kept separate, they disturb and terrify other prisoners."
"Thus, in the case of fishing: entrap the prey or strike it, strike it from top to bottom or from bottom to top."
"Man has not been able to describe himself as a configuration in the episteme without thought at the same time discovering, both in itself and outside itself, at its borders yet also in its very warp and woof, an element of darkness, an apparently inert density in which it is embedded, an unthought which it contains entirely, yet in which it is also caught."
"After Calvin and Luther, poverty bore the marks of an immemorial punishment, and became, in the world of state assisted charity, self complacency and crime against the good order of the state."
"Second, that this debate, at every instant endangering the very principles of the method, appears I say appears, for this is a hypothesis which even if it is not confirmed might permit us, at least, to accentuate the original characteristics of the Husserlian attempt appears thus to force Husserl to transgress the purely descriptive space and transcendental pretention of his research, and to move toward a metaphysics of history in which the solid structure of a Telos would permit him to reappropriate, by making it essential and by in some way pre scribing its horizon, an untamed genesis which grew to greater and greater expanse, and seemed to accommodate itself less and less to phenomenological apriorism and to transcendental idealism."
"Moreover, since the triad is reproduced throughout a whole series of participations, and since the claimants participate within an order and in degrees which represent difference in action, the Neo Platonists indeed saw the essential point: that the aim of division was not the broad distinction among species but the establishment of a serial dialectic, of series or lines of descent in depth which mark the operations of a selective foundation or an elective participation (Zeus I, Zeus etc."
"site which is neither in the book nor outside it, articulating itself as the very opening which is reflection without exit, referral, return, and Ridiculous, this position on your belly."
"The continuum of representation and being, an ontology defined negatively as an absence of nothingness, a general representability of being, and being as expressed in the presence of representation all this is included in the total configuration of the Classical episteme."
"Only on this condition is difference thought in itself, neither represented nor mediated."
"Finally, Levinas is certainly quite attentive to everything in Hus theoretical consciousness."
"It matters little whether or not the former present acts in its objective reality, or rather, in the form in which it was lived or imagined."
"Nonetheless, it was there, in the barely perceptible weave of daily experience, that madness was soon to take on the moral form that was so instantly recognisable to Pinel and Tuke."
"Such are the two characteristics of the hunter, the great paranoiac of the bush or the forest: real displacement with the flows and direct filiation with the god."
"The idea that man, in a movement that was to compromise the whole structure of alienation, was already beginning to recognise his own image therein, would flatter our sensibilities and simplify history considerably."
"They contain something that concerns and touches upon the unreason of the eighteenth century."
"For and this is perhaps one of the fundamental traits of our culture it is impossible to remain in a decisive and indefinitely resolved fashion at the distance specific to unreason."
"Schreber's father invented and fabricated astonishing little machines,"
"In order for a real poem to emerge, we must 'identify' the dark precursor and confer upon it at least a nominal identity in short, we must provide the resonance with a body; then, as in a song, the differenciated series are organised into couplets or verses, while the precursor is incarnated in an antiphon or chorus."
"It is true that we exchange because we have needs; without them, trade would not exist, nor labour either, nor, above all, the division that renders it more productive."
"On the other hand, it gave this madness a whole content of guilt, moral sanction and just punishment that was in no way part of the classical experience."
"It breathes, it heats, it eats."
"Madness, in the classical sense, does not designate a certain change in the mind or the body, but the existence of a delirious discourse that underlies the alterations of the body and the strangeness in behaviour and speech."
"And although it is true that for Bichat the pathological phenomenon is connected with the physiological process and derives from it, this derivation, in the gap that it constitutes, and which denounces the morbid fact, is based upon death."
"Even the psychoanalyst can't ignore them."
"More precisely, there exists a single, necessary arrangement running through the whole of the Classical episteme: the association of a universal calculus and a search for the elementary within a system that is artificial and is, for that very reason, able to make nature visible from its primary elements right to the simultaneity of all their possible combinations."
"A circular declared that If a mature individual dishonours himself by marrying badly, ruins himself with inconsiderate expenditure, gives himself over to debauched excesses and keeps low company, none of these things in themselves seem sufficiently powerful motives to deprive of their liberty persons who are sui juris .e legally competent to manage their own affairs."
"More precisely, the species gathers the time of the dynamism into a quality (lionness, frogness) while the parts outline its space."
"Money, says Barbon, is that by which men 'estimate the value of all other things; having regard more to the stamp and currency of the money than to the quantity of fine silver in each piece'."
"The madman is elsewhere, in a different moment, with another body and other clothes."
"The excess of this origin, which philosophy alone (and no other form of discourse or practice) can repeat beyond any forgetting, denies all pertinence to the event."
"Just as singularity as differential determination is pre individual, so is individuation as individuating difference"
"Also translated as toutefois but at the same time trans."
"Tenon praised the foresight of the administrators at Saint Luke's, where 'a madman, in general, is let loose for most of the day: that freedom, in people unaccustomed to the rule of reason, is already a remedy that brings calm to the wandering or lost imagination'."
"It should be noted, however, that the natural order is formulated in a theory that has value as the correct interpretation of a real series or table: moreover, the structure of beings is both the immediate form of the visible and its articulation; similarly, character designates and localizes in one and the same movement."
"Also in the York Quakers launched the subscription, and voted in the regulations of the society."
"The problem is at once both transcendent and immanent in relation to its solutions."
"The list of remote causes of madness never ceases to grow."
"There is always an uncle from America; a brother who went bad; an aunt who took off with a military man; a cousin out of work, bankrupt, or a victim of the Crash; an anarchist grandfather; a grandmother in the hospital, crazy or senile."
"the possibility of an exhaustive, clear, and complete reading: for a doctor whose skills would be carried 'to the highest degree of perfection, all symptoms would become signs','all pathological manifestations would speak a clear, ordered language."
"The eternal irreducibility of the other to the same, but of the other appearing as other for the same?"
"Once one has finished reading the Recherche, one perceives that the episode is not at all isolable; without it, the ensemble would be unintelligible."
"The differences could be determining only if the despotic State were one concrete formation among others, to be treated comparatively."
"Such relations indeed imply a quantitative siphoning off of portions of the different sorts of flows, but these quantities do not enter into equivalences that would presuppose an unlimited something they simply form composites that are themselves qualitative, essentially mobile and limited, where differences between the elements compensate the disequilibrium (whence the relationship of prestige and consumption in the block of finite debt)."
"thought without being thought: was written and simultaneously erased, metaphorized; designating itself while indicating intrawordly relations, it was represented."
"For phthisis, these are, first of all, firm, homogeneous, whitish tubercles; then softer formations, including at the centre a nucleus of purulent matter that changes colour; finally, a state of suppuration causing ulcers and a destruction of the pulmonary parenchyma."
"Its effects were particularly noteworthy with madness."
"In order to characterize a morbid lesion,' Laennec explains, 'it is usually enough to describe its physical or perceptible characteristics, and to indicate the course it takes in its development and in its terminations'; at most, one has time to use certain `chemical reactions' only if they are very simple and intended to 'reveal certain physical characteristics'; thus one may heat a liver, or pour an acid onto a degenerescence of which one is not sure whether it is fatty or albuminous.s'"
"Another Bic tre patient still believed himself to be king, and still expressed himself 'with the commanding tone of supreme authority'."
"In the other case, the present designates the most contracted degree of an entire past, which is itself like a coexisting totality."
"We call this second instance the repressing representation itself alliance, since the filiations become extended only in terms of lateral alliances that measure their variable segments."
"The molecular unconscious, on the contrary, knows nothing of castration, because partial objects lack nothing and form free multiplicities as such; because the multiple breaks never cease producing flows, instead of repressing them, cutting them at a single stroke the only break capable of exhausting them; because the syntheses constitute local and nonspecific connections, inclusive disjunctions, nomadic conjunctions:"
"Again, in a sense which is neither chronological nor logical, nor ontical in general, it precedes every relationship to God or to the Gods."
"It is no longer considered to be the trajectory of a real displacement through the body, but rather a sort of mute propagation through the paths of the organism and its functional proximities."
"The individual suffering from it must be submitted to the severest form of sequestration."
"During the day they were kept in a second chamber scarcely larger than the first."
"The second has to do with the disjunctive synthesis, and mobilizes the Numen as detachment energy ienergie de detachementy."
"One thing in any case is certain: man is neither the oldest nor the most constant problem that has been posed for human knowledge."
"On the contrary, it is a question of the identity of Ideas and problems, of the exhaustively problematic character of Ideas in other words, of the manner in which problems are objectively determined by their conditions to participate in one another according to the circumstantial requirements of the synthesis of Ideas."
"It is correct to measure established literature against an Oedipal psychoanalysis, for this literature deploys a form of superego proper to it, even more noxious than the nonwritten superego."
"Intention surpasses itself and disengages from itself in order to be said."
"The virtual object is not a former present, since the quality of the present and the modality of its passing here affect exclusively the series of the real as this is constituted by active synthesis."
"They were rather the first stumbling steps towards a definition of madness that a whole society was once more eager to exorcise, at a time when its previous companions in misery poverty, libertinage and sickness had fallen into the privatedomain."
"The criticism that Hegel addresses to his predecessors is that they stopped at a purely relative maximum without reaching the absolute maximum of difference, namely contradiction; they stopped before reaching the infinite (as infinitely large) of contradiction."
"The shortest is not simply the schema of the concept of straight, but the dream, the drama or the dramatisation of the Idea of a line in so far as it expresses the differenciation of the straight from the curved."
"It is often said that the establishment of botanical gardens and zoological collections expressed a new curiosity about exotic plants and animals."
"The mad who were 'delivered' by Pinel, and, in their wake the madmen of the modern confinement, are characters on trial; if they have the privilege of no longer being locked up or confused with other prisoners, they are still condemned at each instant to be the subject of a process of accusation which never takes place in public, for it is formulated by their whole asylum life."
"The only differences are that there is only one nature and there are several languages; and that in the esoteric field the properties of words, syllables, and letters are discovered by another discourse which always remains secret, whereas in grammar it is the words and phrases of everyday life that themselves express their properties."
"In the first case, the asylum was to act as an awakening and a reminder, invoking a forgotten nature; in the second, it was to act as social displacement, to uproot individuals from their condition."
"To outsiders, and perhaps even in their own eyes, some forms of that experience were situated in the grey area that lay between sense and madness, and decisions were constantly required about which was which, while they were continually forced to confront the constant accusations of insanity that were made against them."
"Who do we find forming a sort of kinship with the insane, a kinship they would have such problems shaking off at the end of the eighteenth century?"
"But in fact things did not come about in an atmosphere of well meaning neutrality."
"This irreducible difference is due to an interminable delaying differance of the theoretical foundation."
"The other who is nobody, but who is self for the other and the other for the self in two systems, the a priori Other is defined in each system by its expressive value in other words, its implicit and enveloping value."
"It would be wrong, however, to see in this second case the pure expression of a prior requirement of resemblance, which would then be relaxed in the first case only by being extended to the world scale."
"It was decided that she should be submitted to a regime of strict authority: In order to break her inflexible character, the keeper chose his moment at bath time, and expressed himself quite forcibly about certain unnatural people who dared go against their parents and question their authority."
"The lack of coincidence between the practices of exclusion and protection and the more theoretical experience that we have of madness is certainly a fairly constant fact in Western experience."
"The edict was more fearsome still: 'Anyone caught practising divination will be expelled from the kingdom immediately', all superstitious practices were to receive exemplary punishments according to the demands of the case, and 'if it is found that there are individuals sufficiently wicked to mix impiety, superstition and sacrilege"
"Derrida then concludes: that it is not Descartes who states '"
"It is more written than said, it is economized."
"This explains why melancholics prefer solitude and avoid company, which in turn increases their attachment to the object of their delirium or theirdominant passion, whatever that might be, while they appear to remain indifferent to all other things."
"Eternal return employs negation like a Nachfolge and invents a new formula for the negation of the negation: everything which can be denied is and must be denied."
"But the exchange creates value in its turn, and in two ways."
"also, in the letter of insults to the Comedie Francaise which, in explicit terms, denounces the scatological vocation of that institution's concept and operations)."
"Conversely, this non knowledge is no longer a negative or an insufficiency but a rule or something to be learnt which corresponds to a fundamental dimension of the object."
"Moreover, it is at the same time and from the same point of view that difference ceases to be reduced to a simply conceptual difference, and repetition establishes its most profound link with difference and finds a positive principle both for itself and for this link."
"'I think' and the 'I am' of the being undertaking it that very discourse remained, in a visible form, the very essence of Classical language, for what was being linked together in"
"Duvergier, Collection complete des lois., vol. ."
"In a certain sense, capitalist economists are not mistaken when they present the economy as being perpetually in need of monetarization, as if it were always necessary to inject money into the economy from the outside according to a supply and a demand."
"In Matter and Memory', Bergson proposed the schema of a world with two centres, one real and the other virtual, from which emanate on the one hand a series of 'perception images', and on the other a series of 'memory images', the two series collaborating in an endless circuit."
"Penetrating forces' designates a society that no longer contains desires, a religion that no longer regulates time and imagination, and a civilisation that no longer limits the errings of thought and sensibility."
"which means that it is finite in its essence (ibid.)"
"Or does it hide, rather, some indestructible and unforeseeable resource of the Greek logos?"
"In Saint Th odore, prisoners were there due to lettres de cachet; the gaol had eight 'common people'; there were 'decrepit' women in Saint Paul, the Madeleine had women who were 'sick, or in a second childhood', Sainte Genevi ve had 'girlish old women'"
"We must draw two consequences from these opposing characteristics."
"There were also analyses that by studying humanity's more or less ancient, more or less easily vanquished illusions functioned as a sort of transcendental dialectic; by this means it was shown that knowledge had historical, social, or economic conditions, that it was formed within the relations that are woven between men, and that it was not independent of the particular form they might take here or there; in short, that there was a history of human knowledge which could both be given to empirical knowledge and prescribe its forms."
"It is counterproduced as a result of the pressure of antiproduction; the latter falls back on (se rabat sur)"
"Sometimes the decision had already been taken by the local authorities: the bourgeoisie of Lyon had been running a charitable establishment that worked along similar lines since The Archbishop of Tours was proud to announce on July that his metropolitan city had fortunately foreseen the wishes of the King and erected a pital ral called La Charit before the Paris hospital had come into being, with an organisation which has long been a model for all hospitals subsequently created, both within the kingdom and beyond."
"This cordoning off of production through information shows once again"
"Schizzes have to do with heterogeneous chains, and as their basic unit use detachable segments or mobile stocks resembling building See Jacques Lacan, Remarque sur Ie rapport de Daniel Lagache, in Ecrits"
"What results has no coherent sense at all."
"a maddening I am unable to master'."
"Chaining the mad to walls and beds was common practice."
"The body without organs is not an original primordial entity that later projects itself into different sorts of socius, as though it were a raving paranoiac, the chieftain of the primitive horde, who was initially responsible for social organization."
"The real and perception based discourse that prolonged the delirious and image based discourse was therefore neither to escape the laws of the delirium nor leave their sovereignty, but to exert some sort of positive function within them."
"we know that the Greeks identified both fame and public opinion by the word and that the Teutons believed in the fertilizing virtues of storms from their expression das liebe Gewitter (pp."
"Nor will it be so for as long as the absolutely principial self evidence, in Levinas's own terms, of the impossibility for the ego not to be itself is not dissolved."
"The more one directs one's attention to the economic and political compromises conveyed by the alliances, to the nature of the counterprestations that come to compensate the disequilibrium of the prestations of wives, and generally the original manner in which the aggregate of prestations is evaluated in a particular society, the more clearly the necessarily open nature of the system in extension appears, as in the case of the primitive mechanism of surplus value as a surplus value of code."
"More precisely, in the third place, the structural exchangist conception tends to postulate a kind of primary equilibrium of prices, a primary equivalence or equality in the underlying principles, which allows it to explain that the inequalities are necessarily introduced in the consequences."
"And how does one distinguish the way in which the primitive community remains on its guard with respect to its own institutions of chieftainship, and exorcises or strait jackets the image of the possible despot whom it threatens to secrete from within, from the way in which it binds up the symbol a symbol that has become derisory of a former despot who thrust himself upon the community from the outside long ago?"
"If difference is related to its differenciator, and if we refrain from attributing to the differenciator an identity that it cannot and does not have, then the difference will be small or large according to its possibilities of fractionation that is, according to the displacements and disguise of the differenciator."
"Why had it accepted the words of Nerval and Artaud, and recognised itself in their words but not in them?"
"The final degree of melancholy has many affinities with mania.'"
"It is here, for the Classical analysis of money, that the point of heresy occurs the choice that divides the followers of Law from his opponents."
"In The Statesman, it appears in the form of the shepherd God who presides over the circular movement of the universe."
"Madness was again perceptible, as a confused presence, but one which before long began to problematise the abstraction of confinement once more."
"To learn is indeed to constitute this space of an encounter with signs, in which the distinctive points renew themselves in each other, and repetition takes shape while disguising itself."
"Bulletin des sciences medicates, vol.,."
"They are usually contrasted, in the same way as Linnaeus is contrasted with Buffon, Adanson, or AntoineLaurent de Jussieu or as a rigid and simple conception of nature is contrasted with the detailed and immediate perception of its relations, or as the idea of a motionless nature is contrasted with that of a teeming continuity of beings all communicating with one another, mingling with one another, and perhaps being transformed into one another. ."
"Now, the entire paragraph which follows does not express Descartes's final, definitive conclusions, but rather the astonishment and objections of the non philosopher, of the novice in philosophy who is frightened by this doubt and protests, saying: I am willing to let you doubt certain sensory perceptions concerning things which are hardly perceptible, or very far away, but the others!"
"It is in fact essential that the limit of the decoded flows of desiring production be doubly exorcised, doubly displaced, once by the position of immanent limits that capitalism does not cease to reproduce on an ever expanding scale, and again by the marking out of an interior limit that reduces this social reproduction to restricted familial reproduction."
"Cuvier denies that folding can produce such an arrangement."
"In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, it was the immediate and spontaneous unfolding of representations; it was in that order in the first place that representations received their primary signs, patterned and regrouped their common features, and established their relations of identity or attribution; language was a form of knowing and knowing was automatically discourse."
"The asylum was thus a religiousdomain stripped of religion, adomain of pure morality and ethical uniformity."
"As late as if a report presented to the House of Commons is to be believed, Bethlem Hospital showed its lunatics every Sunday for one penny."
"concerning the monastery's relationship with the city, see Lewis Mumford, who talks about an elaboration of a new form of urban structuration in terms of monasteries (The City in History New York: Harcourt, Brace, and World,."
"Having an Idea is this as well."
"But in the history of unreason, it signals a decisive event: the moment when madness is seen against the social horizon of poverty, the inability to work and the impossibility of integrating into a social group."
"The clinic was probably the first attempt to order a science on the exercise and decisions of the gaze."
"And it is in this respect that resemblance in sixteenth century knowledge is without doubt the most universal thing there is: at the same time"
"Interiority in place of a new relationship with the outside."
"However, while this procedure maximally approximates the real movement of thought, it also maximally betrays and distorts this movement: this conjoint hypotheticism and moralism, this scientistic hypotheticism and this rationalist moralism, render unrecognisable what they approximate."
"It wastes no time in discrediting the old idols, even though it does have a great deal of fun with Freud."
"In short, the general theory of society is a generalized theory of flows; it is in terms of the latter that one must consider the relationship of social production to desiring production, the variations of this relationship in each case, and the limits of this relationship in the capitalist system."
"My misfortune, I am sure of it, came from my father's being so distant with me and from the small amount of affection shown me by my mother."
"Paradoxically, the presence of the corpse enables us to perceive it living living with a life that is no longer that of either old sympathies or the combinative laws of complications, but one that has its own roles and its own laws."
"It either affected perception, or at least the judgement or belief that might be found in a perception: 'this is an insane man who believed that the Eternal Father had appeared to him, giving him the power to preach penance and to save the world', or"
"If one joins to these generally poor conditions the profoundly demoralising influence exerted by poverty, a lack of education, a lack of foresight, the abuse of alcohol, venereal excesses and insufficient food, one begins to have an idea of the complex circumstances that tend to modify in an unfavourable manner the temperament of the poor."
"And when I say function within a system to which it will be coordinated."
"At its most autistic, psychoanalysis is no longer measured against any reality, it no longer opens to any outside, but becomes itself the test of reality and the guarantor of its own test: reality as the lack to which the inside and the outside, departure and arrival, are reduced."
"One of the tasks of medicine, therefore, is to rejoin its own condition, but by a path in which it must efface each of its steps, because it attains its aim in a gradual neutralization of itself."
"The cycle was doubly complete: the fault was punished, and its author had acknowledged her guilt."
"Upon what basis does the original violence of discourse permit itself to be commanded to be returned against itself, to be always, as language, the return against itself which recognizes the other as other?"
"This is why problems are inseparable from a power of decision, a fiat which, when we are infused by it, makes us semi divine beings."
"Two dimensions may be distinguished in a proposition: expression, in which a proposition says or expresses some idea; and designation, in which it indicates or designates the objects to which what is said or expressed applies."
"There is therefore neither law nor commandment which does not confirm and enclose that is, does not dissimulate by presupposing itthe possibility of the question."
"The comprehensive representation is indeed in itself, the memory is there, embracing all the particularity of an act, a scene, an event or a being."
"We cannot say that psychoanalysis is very innovative in this respect: it continues to ask its questions and develop its interpretations from the depths of the Oedipal triangle as its basic perspective, even though today it is acutely aware that this frame of reference is not at all adequate to explain so called psychotic phenomena."
"Perhaps, for the classical world, in the economy of evil there also lurked a common experience of unreason."
"In that moment of world history subsumed by the name of Freud, by means of an unbelievable mythology (be it neurological or metapsychological:"
"By contrast, when we say that univocal being is related immediately and essentially to individuating factors, we certainly do not mean by the latter individuals constituted in experience, but that which acts in them as a transcendental principle: as a plastic, anarchic and nomadic principle, contemporaneous with the process of individuation, no less capable of dissolving and destroying individuals than of constituting them temporarily; intrinsic modalities of being, passing from one 'individual' to another, circulating and communicating underneath matters and forms."
"Perhaps before proceeding further I shall be asked to define what I mean by the archetypal, primitive theater."
"Wealth', instead of being distributed over a table and thereby constituting a system of equivalences, is organized and accumulated in a temporal sequence: all value is determined, not according to the instruments that permit its analysis, but according to the conditions of production that have brought it into being; and, even prior to that, the conditions in question are determined by the quantities of labour applied in producing them."
"At the end of the eighteenth century, when Tenon wrote his moires sur les pitaux de Paris, these madmen were grouped together in two rooms."
"Error, therefore, pays homage to the 'truth' to the extent that, lacking a form of its own, it gives the form of the true to the false."
"Everything is on the body without organs, both what is inscribed and the energy that inscribes it."
"If we consider first verbal expression, as it is circumscribed in the dream, we observe that its sonority, the materiality of the expression, does not disappear before the signified, or at least cannot be traversed and transgressed as it is in conscious speech."
"Nietzsche was not fooled:"
"Were the mad then to be treated simply as prisoners, and placed in a prison environment, or should they be treated as invalids who had no relatives, and who therefore needed a quasi family environment created around them?"
"If we attempted to read these characters according to their symbolic relation (Zeichenbeziehung), we should clearly be led into error."
"Of what use is it not only to the ethnologist, but what purpose does it serve and how does it work in the very formation that makes use of the symbol?"
"Stoll, 'Aphorisme sur la connaissance et la curation des fievres', Encyclopedie des Sciences medicales, th division, vol.,."
"Ars erotica, ars theoretica, ars politica."
"re apprehending them upon their outer slope, by leaving them their opacity, by accepting as things the mechanisms and functions they isolate, by questioning those functions and mechanisms not in terms of what they are but in terms of what they cease to be when the space of representation is opened up; and upon that basis they show how a representation of what they are can come into being and be deployed."
"Corvisart, Preface to the French translation of Auenbrugger, Nouvelle methode pour reconnoitre les maladies internes de la poitrine (Paris,."
"The explanation is that, despite his attempt at linking desire to a fundamental"
"But can I use this example for myself?"
"Hunched over the body of a female patient, Pomme heard the vibrations in the irritated nervous system, and after dipping it in water for twelve hours a day for ten months, he saw the dessicated elements peel away and fall into the bath, 'membranous strips like strips of wet parchment'."
"The dark cosmic forces at work in madness that are so apparent in the work of Bosch are absent in Erasmus."
"What comes into being is a new moral unity, freed from ancient punishments, and already close to modern forms of guilt."
"Or it may be that the surplus of the one party is not sufficient for the needs of the other, and that the latter will refrain from giving all that he possesses; he will keep some part of it in order to obtain from a third party the additional quantity indispensable to his need; this deducted portion which the second party will try to reduce to a minimum, since he needs all the first's surplus gives rise to price: it is no longer an excess of wheat that is being exchanged for an excess of wine, but, as the result of an altercation, so many hogsheads of wine for so many bushels of wheat."
"This passage quotes a 'certain Chinese encyclopaedia' in which it is written that 'animals are divided into: (a) belonging to the Emperor, (b) embalmed, (c) tame, (d)"
"In the other region, by contrast, madness becomes manifest, attempting to voice its truth and denounce its situation, and express itself through all of its possible forms, looking for a nature and a positive mode of presence in the world."
"The symptoms of pulmonary phthisis include coughing, difficulty in breathing, marasmus, hectic fever, and sometimes purulent expectoration; but none of these visible modifications is absolutely indispensable (there are tubercular patients who do not cough), and the order of their appearance is not strict (fever may appear early on or only towards the end of the evolution of the disease)."
"However, in what, exactly, does the grounding test consist?"
"He is the difference which insinuates itself between myself and myself as my death."
"Light perhaps has no opposite; if it does, it is certainly not night."
"How could madness take its place in this world of illness where truths announce themselves in observable phenomena, when its own concrete appearance in the world is always with its sharpest profile, the one most difficult to grasp?"
"And all religious, mendicant or non mendicant, shall be and remain included in the prohibition laid down in the preceding article'."
"(Je batis ma deme( re)"
"Myth tells us that it always involves a further task to be performed, an enigma to be resolved."
"Such a systematic and historic questioning would be neither a opposition between nature and culture to which I attached much importance at one time. ."
"Transport is Dionysian, divine and delirious, before it is local transfer."
"the book that man expected from man; the one in order finally to be God, the other finally to be man."
"But it is always prepared to add more axioms, it adds axioms for many other things besides, things that are much smaller, tiny even, absurdly insignificant; it has a peculiar passion for such things that leaves the essential unchanged."
"The ego is a mask for other masks, a disguise under other disguises."
"For a new departure, since this I is another?"
"The disjunctive synthesis distributes the primordial ancestors, but each member of the primitive community is himself a complete full body, male and female, binding to itself all the partial objects, with variations that are solely intensive, and that correspond to the internal zigzag of the Dogon egg."
"When satirical poets proceed through the various degrees of insult, they do not stop with animal forms but continue on to more profound regressions, passing from carnivores to herbivores and ending with cloaca as though with a universal leguminous and digestive ground."
"The wisdom of the poet thus culminates its freedom in the passion of translating obedience to the law of the word into autonomy. '"
"It would seem obvious that parents indeed make their appearance on the recording surface of desiring production."
"May all these things form complexes of the unconscious, more effective than everlasting Oedipus."
"If the Other was a real moment of my egological life, if indu sion of an other monad within my own (Cartesian Meditations) was real, I' would perceive it"
"Now, when two languages present analogous systems, one must be able to decide either that one of them is derived from the other, or that they have both issued from a third, from which they have each developed systems which are partly different and also partly analogous."
"The law of large numbers works for death."
"Consider the great negative notions such as the many in relation to the One, disorder in relation to order, nothingness in relation to being: it makes no difference whether they are interpreted as the limit of a process of degeneration or as the antithesis of a thesis."
"Moreover, there is no revolution so long as we remain tied to Euclidean geometry: we must move to a geometry of sufficient reason, a Riemannian type differential geometry which tends to give rise to discontinuity on the basis of continuity, or to ground solutions in the conditions of the problems."
"Then again, Hamlet is not an extension of Oedipus, an Oedipus to the second degree; on the contrary, a negative or inverse Hamlet is primary in relation to Oedipus."
"In Greek, in our language, in a language rich with all the alluvia of its history and our question takes shape already in a language that admits to its powers of seduction while playing on them unceasingly, this thought summons us to a dislocation of the Greek logos, to a dislocation of our identity, and perhaps of identity in general; it summons us to depart from the Greek site and perhaps from every site in general, and to move toward what is no longer a source or a site (too welcoming to the gods), but toward an exhalation, toward a prophetic speech already emitted not only nearer to the source than Plato or the pre Socratics, but inside the Greek origin, close to the other of the Greek (but will the other of the Greek be the non Greek?"
"Doth not the question, whether a thing be or no, presuppose the Entitie?"
"Oedipus disintegrates because its very conditions have disintegrated."
"Comic travesty replaces tragic metamorphosis."
"In German speaking countries it was the Zuchth user, or houses of correction, the first of which preceded the French houses of confinement (with the exception of the Lyon Charit, opening in Hamburg around."
"It is true that from the very outset Adam Smith relates the notion of wealth to that of labour: The annual labour of every nation is the fund which originally supplies it with all the necessaries and conveniences of life which it annually consumes, and which consist always either in the immediate produce of that labour, or in what is purchased with that produce from other nations; it is also true that Smith relates the 'value in use' of things to men's needs, and their 'value in exchange' to the quantity of labour applied to its production: The value of any commodity, therefore, to the person who possesses it, and who means not to use or consume it himself, but to exchange it for other commodities, is equal to the quantity of labour which it enables him to purchase or command."
"Bodies, transcendent and natural things, are others in general for my consciousness."
"cannot be resolved independently of the lines of passage and the lines of blockage, as if what was blocked or prohibited reappeared in marriages in spectral form, coming to demand its due."
"There are four principal aspects to 'reason' in so far as it is the medium of representation: identity, in the form of the undetermined concept; analogy, in the relation between ultimate determinable concepts; opposition, in the relation between determinations within concepts; resemblance, in the determined object of the concept itself."
"Though it is in opposition to the 'bourgeois' theories of economics, and though this opposition leads it to use the project of a radical reversal of History as a weapon against them, that con<U+FB02>ict and that project nevertheless have as their condition of possibility, not the reworking of all History, but an event that any archaeology can situate with precision, and that prescribed simultaneously, and according to the same mode, both nineteenth century bourgeois economics and nineteenth century revolutionary economics."
"With the same movement the Oedipus complex inserts desire into triangulation, and prohibits desire from satisfying itself with the terms of the triangulation."
"Pierre Ballanche, who owes much to both Joachim and Vico together, attempts to specify this third age as that of the plebeian, of Ulysses or 'no one', 'the man without name', the regicide or the modern Oedipus who 'searches for the scattered members of the great victim' (see his strange Essais de palingenesie sociale, Paris: Didot,."
"The essential process of intensive quantities is individuation."
"ecomcs unbearable to the body without organs."
"The repetition of throws is not subject to the persistence of the same hypothesis, nor to the identity of a constant rule."
"We will go over the same way ten times, a hundred times' (Livre des questions,."
"But Rameau's Nephew knows very well and it is the most permanent feature among his fleeting certitudes that he is mad. '"
"The essence is nothing, an empty generality, when separated from this measure, this manner and this study of cases."
"Finite difference is determined in a monad as that part of the world clearly expressed, infinitely small difference as the confused ground which underpins that clarity."
"But in any case we are oedipalized: if we don't have Oedipus as a crisis, we have it as a structure."
"For the real question is this: of course the father acts on the child's unconscious but does he act as a head of a family in an expressive familial transmission, or rather as the agent of a machine, in a rnachinic information or communication?"
"But the status of this inquiry and of all the questions into which it breaks down is not perfectly clear."
"It would no longer be possible to do an analysis of the subject along the lines of those done by Emile le for previous ages, particularly where the theme of death is concerned."
"In reality, it was the opposite that happened."
"The resources of the mise en scene (die Darstellungsmittel) must be questioned."
"Charles Chaplin in Modern Times"
"Now that we are no longer dealing with independent variables, but with systems governed by one another, we are confronted once again with the problem of reciprocal importance."
"Questions are imperatives or rather, questions express the relation between problems and the imperatives from which they proceed."
"Rather, there are positive differential elements which determine the genesis of both the affirmation and the difference affirmed."
"Not at all, for the surplus is of no use to him, or at all events, since he has agreed to exchange it, he must be according a greater value to what he receives than to what he relinquishes."
"An attraction machine now takes the place, or may take the place, of a repulsion machine: a miraculating machine succeeding the paranoiac machine."
"It could be thought that this latter Difference, which simultaneously opens and conceals truth, and in fact distinguishes nothing the invisible accomplice of all speech is furtive power itself, if this were not to confuse the metaphysical and metaphorical category of the furtive with that which makes it possible."
"For while the passive ego becomes narcissistic, the activity must be thought."
"We do not know when or where we have seen it, in accordance with the objective nature of the problematic; and ultimately, it is only the strange which is familiar and only difference which is repeated."
"The centre of the group is occupied by the little Infanta, with her <U+FB02>ared pink and grey dress."
"In a decree by the Council of State set up a commission that was to look after 'the degree of improvement required in various hospitals in France'."
"Is it by such means that I will be able to transform into an effective resolution the proposition that I must doubt everything that comes to us in dreams?"
"Now, this project belongs to the narration narrating itself and not to the narration narrated by Foucault."
"Heinroth said something similar when he stated that madness was das se berhaupt 'mostly evil'."
"For these are Hegel style destructions, ways of conserving."
"But these celestial Encyclopaedists do not all possess the Encyclopaedia of the Universe to the same degree; some possess only a few branches of it, others possess a greater number, others grasp even more still; but all have eternity in which to increase and perfect their learning and develop all their faculties."
"The third type of interruption or break characteristic of the desiring machine is the residual break (coupure reste) or residuum, which produces a subject alongside the machine, functioning as a part adjacent to the machine."
"Desiring machines make us an organism; but at the very heart of this production, within the very production of this production, the body suffers from being organized in this way, from not having some other sort of organization, or no organization at all."
"We can now see how positivism was able to take root in this dialectic, despite the fact that nothing seemed to herald its coming, as the talk was all of moral experiences, philosophical themes and dream like images of man."
"Through this meditative exercise, the thought of the dream has an effect on the subject himself: it modifies him by filling him with stupor."
"Of course powerlessness can remain powerlessness, but it alone can also be raised to the highest power."
"unreason transformed into the delirium of the heart, the madness of desire, and an insane dialogue between love and death in the limitless presumption of appetite."
"Disease is now no more than a certain complex movement of tissues in reaction to an irritating cause: it is in this that the whole essence of the pathological lies, for there are no longer either essential diseases or essences of diseases."
"On the basis of death, disease is embodied in a space that coincides with that of the organism; it follows its lines and dissects it; it is organized in accordance with its general geometry; it is also inflected towards its singularities."
"The theory of value responds to a question that intersects this first one, a question that probes, as it were vertically and in depth, the horizontal area in which exchange is continuously taking place: why are there things that men seek to exchange; why are some of them worth more than others, why do some of them, that have no utility, have a high value, whereas others, that are indispensable, have no value at all?"
"It is quite clear here that the force of the myth is far more important than any psychological truth or rigorous medical observation; if the subjects freed by Pinel were really insane, it is clear that they were not cured by the simple gesture of liberation their conduct must have long been marked by traces of alienation."
"For there is no other aesthetic problem than that of the insertion of art into everyday life."
"(Here again, how bad a model the Oedipal model of castration is!)"
"Gone were the days when it sneaked through alleyways and hid in familiar places: now madness, and all those who were its incarnation, could be instantly exorcised through measures of order and precautions of police."
"By training citizens in frugality by means of simple dietary laws, by showing young people above all the pleasures that may be derived from even a hard life, by making them appreciate the strictest discipline in the army and navy, how many ills would be prevented, how much expense avoided, and what new abilities would reveal themselves."
"However, is it not also susceptible to another more radical interpretation, according to which there would be a difference between the clear and the distinct, not just of degree but in kind, such that the clear would be in itelf confused and the distinct in itself obscure?"
"This proximity would be indicated in questions of this type: on the one hand, is God (the infinite other existent) still an existent which can be precomprehended on the basis of a thought of Being (singularly, of divinity)?"
"Thus it is paradoxical to see the Heideggerean city governed by a neutral power, by an anonymous discourse, that is, by the one (man) whose inauthenticity Heidegger was the first to describe."
"We know of two broad types of writing: that which retraces the meaning of words, and that which analyses and reconstitutes their sounds."
"Helping ended up by paying, thanks to the virtues of the clinical gaze."
"It is he who makes use of all the power of the clear and the confused, of the clear confused, in order to think Ideas in all their power as the distinct obscure."
"In addition, it is surrounded and penetrated by 'an infinite number of veins and arteries that enclose it and can easily disgorge themselves into its substance'."
"Practically speaking, the psychoanalyst often claims to explain to the ethnologist the meaning of the symbol: it means phallus, castration, Oedipus."
"It may perhaps be objected that in order to define certain laws, even though they are interior to the mechanics of production (such as the accumulation of capital or the relations between wage rates and prices), economics has recourse to human behaviour patterns and a representation that provide its foundation (interest, the search for maximum profit, the tendency to accumulate savings); but, in doing so, it is utilizing representations as the requisite of a function (which occurs, in effect, within an explicitly human activity); on the other hand, there will be no science of man unless we examine the way in which individuals or groups represent to themselves the partners with whom they produce or exchange, the mode in which they clarify or the human sciences ignore or mask this function and the position they occupy in it, the manner in which they represent to themselves the society in which it takes place, the way in which they feel themselves integrated with it or isolated from it, dependent, subject, or free; the object of the human sciences is not that man who, since the dawn of the world, or the first cry of his golden age, is doomed to work; it is that being who, from within the forms of production by which his whole existence is governed, forms the representation of those needs, of the society by which, with which, or against which he satisfies them, so that upon that basis he can finally provide himself with a representation of economics itself."
"Vitalism invokes an individual and specific unity of the living, which every machine presupposes insofar as it is subordinate to organic continuance, and insofar as it extends the latter's autonomous formations on the outside."
"So it's your father, so it's your mother, so"
"An absolutely new use of scientific discourse was then defined: a use involving fidelity and unconditional subservience to the coloured content of experience to say what one sees; but also a use involving the foundation and constitution of experience showing by saying what one sees."
"difficulty of being a Jew, which coincides with the difficulty of writing; for Judaism and writing are but the same waiting, the same hope, the same depletion."
"It may be acknowledged, then, that in the rereading to which we are invited by Rousset, light is menaced from within by that which also metaphysically menaces every structuralism: the possibility of concealing meaning through the very act of uncovering it."
"Come, you lovable, sensual women,' wrote Beauchesne And flee the dangers of false pleasures, fleeting passions, luxury and inaction; follow your young husbands to the countryside, and on journeys; race them across grassy, flower strewn prairies, then come back to Paris as an example to your companions, showing them the beneficial exercise and work that befits your sex."
"In this simulation, I conserve or anticipate the entirety of knowledge, I do not limit myself to a determined and abstract kind of knowledge or unknowledge, but I rather absolve myself of absolute knowledge, putting it back in its place as such, situating it and inscribing it within a space which it no longerdominates."
"Meaning was no longer read in an immediate perception, and accordingly objects ceased to speak directly: between the knowledge that animated the figures of objects and the forms they were transformed into"
"The field of practical medicine was divided between a free, endlessly opendomain that of home practice and a closed space, confined to the truths of the species that it revealed; the field of apprenticeship was divided between an encloseddomain of essential truths and a freedomain in which truth speaks of itself."
"It is this unity that, through the play of an articulated designation, enables resemblance to enter the propositional relation, that is, a system of identities and differences as based upon the verb to be and manifested by the network of names."
"We have seen how all three of these aspects were present in the differential calculus: the solutions are like the discontinuities compatible with differential equations, engendered on the basis of an ideal continuity in accordance with the conditions of the problem."
"This state is that of a hypochondriac who needs a great variety of remedies to satisfy him, and who suffers all the same."
"(but on the other hand), moments which mark 'peripeteia', turning points, events in the meditation, rather than the emergence of a different voice."
"Economic theory, therefore, now constructed the notion of Poverty on new grounds."
"How, then, are we to avoid this profound repetition being hidden by the bare repetitions that it inspires, and succumbing to the illusion of a primacy of brute repetition?"
"As one is forced by the uninterrupted growth of the population to clear and cultivate less fertile tracts of land, so the harvesting of these new units of wheat requires more and more labour: either because the land must be ploughed more deeply, or because a greater surface must be sown, or because more fertilizer is needed; the cost of production is thus much higher for these later harvests than it was for the first ones, which were obtained originally from rich and fertile lands."
"Destutt de Tracy, moires de l'Academie des Sciences morales et politiques,. ."
"It is precisely this alternative between infinite and finite representation that is at issue when we speak of the 'metaphysics' of calculus."
"One step further, and the whole system tightens into a unity where the body and soul communicate immediately in the symbolic values of shared qualities."
"Psychoanalysis constitutes for its part a gigantic enterprise of absorption of surplus value."
"The fourth moment (which concludes the test): at the same time I see manifestly that there is no certain mark to allow a distinction between dreaming and reality; and I no longer know, in this precise moment, so astonished am I, if I am in the process of dreaming or not."
"The egg and the placenta itself, swept by an unconscious life energy susceptible to augmentation and diminution."
"I cannot speak of an absence of meaning, except by giving it a meaning it does not have."
"Syntax does not become evident only after a (theoretically limitless) series of events has been recorded and examined, because it is itself the body of rules governing their production."
"If the sensation continues to grow until the tension becomes such that the other fibres can vibrate no longer, the resulting rigidity immobilises the blood and stops the movement of the animal spirits."
"You observe that analogy, which gives us law, does not permit us to choose signs at random or arbitrarily.'"
"What is it that can only be sensed, yet is imperceptible at the same time?"
"The experience of madness as sickness, however limited it might be, cannot be denied."
"What Tuke instituted was a mediating element between guardians and patients, between reason and madness."
"Working at the limits of the resources that we have at our disposal, we can still partially trace the evolution of a long, painstaking process of classification that moved in parallel to the theoretical model but was entirely independent from it."
"Temporality as spacing will be not only the horizontal discontinuity of a chain of signs, but also will be writing as the interruption and restoration of contact between the various depths of psychical levels: the remarkably heterogeneous temporal fabric of psychical work itself"
"As opposed to Being and to the Leibnizian Book,' the rationality of the Logos, for which our writing is responsible, obeys the principle of discontinuity."
"However far you go in the concept"
"Now that money and wealth are both included within the area of exchange and circulation, mercantilism can adjust its analysis in terms of the model recently provided by Harvey."
"In Paris and Amiens, madness is there among the twelve evil soldiers who fight against their antithesis fordominion over the human soul: Faith and Idolatry, Hope and Despair, Charity and Avarice, Chastity and Lust, Prudence and Folly, Patience and Anger, Sweetness and Harshness, Concord and Discord, Obedience and Rebelliousness, Perseverance and Inconstancy Fortitude and Cowardice, Humility and Pride."
"But to man's experience a body has been given, a body which is his body a fragment of ambiguous space, whose peculiar and irreducible spatiality is nevertheless articulated upon the space of things; to this same experience, desire is given as a primordial appetite on the basis of which all things assume value, and relative value; to this same experience, a language is given in the thread of which all the discourses of all times, all successions and all simultaneities may be given."
"There is therefore a critique of language in the form of bricolage, and it has even been said that bricolage is critical language itself"
"Nietzsche has only a meager set of tools at his disposal some ancient Germanic law, a little Hindu law."
"ca ltalist surplus value, flows of words against flows of money, the mtermmable story psychoanalysis."
"the Praise of Reason is sung in the manner of Erasmus."
"You who have a watch or are close to a clock."
"This cannot be debated here."
"However, this opposition between cyclical and linear time is a weak idea."
"So many powers, from the slow illumination of obscurities, the ever prudent reading of the essential, the calculation of times and risks, to the mastery of the heart and the majestic confiscation of paternal authority, are just so many forms in which the sovereignty of' the gaze gradually establishes itself the eye that knows and decides, the eye that governs."
"In this way, from within representation, signs are united with the very nature of what they designate, and the primitive treasury of vocables is imposed, in identical fashion, on all languages."
"These concepts, which seem to be identical to each other like the accomplishing of presence, in fact mark and sharpen the incision of difference."
"We do not deny that there is an Oedipal sexuality, an Oedipal heterosexuality and homosexuality, an Oedipal castration, as well as complete objects, global images, and specific egos."
"Take a notion such as that of Leibnizian incompossibility."
"What I want to emphasize is simply that."
"Ettm ller gives a good example when he lists the causes of convulsions: nephritic colic, the acid humours of melancholy, birth during a lunar eclipse, neighbouring metal mines, the anger of newborn children, autumn fruits, constipation, medlar stones in the rectum, and in a more immediate fashion, the passions and those of love in particular."
"Meaning here is always fractured."
"Taking the example of the bodily cares administered to a schizophrenic massages, baths, swathings Gisela Pankow asks if it is a matter of reaching the invalid at the point of his regression, in order to give him indirect symbolic satisfactions that would allow him to resume a progression, to take up a progressive pace."
"The eighteenth century saw numerous attempts to adapt the ancient juridical notion of a 'subject of the law' to the contemporary experience of man in society."
"Writing as sweet nourishment or as excrement, the trace as seed or mortal germ, wealth or weapon, detritus and/or penis, etc."
"At the same time, the whole world had passed what seemed like a physical crisis point."
"Cantin, Projet de reforrne adresse I'Assemblee Nationale (Paris,. ."
"Hegel ridiculed Leibniz for having invited the court ladies to undertake experimental metaphysics while walking in the gardens, to see whether two leaves of a tree could not have the same concept Replace the court ladies by forensic scientists: no two grains of dust are absolutely identical, no two hands have the same distinctive points, no two typewriters have the same strike, no two revolvers score their bullets in the same manner."
"What are your desiring machines, what do you put into these machines, what is the output"
"It offers itself to knowledge by offering itself to recognition. '"
"It should permit the capture from the exterior of a mind without rule, lost to itself in the vibration of its inner movement: If it can be perceived that there are objects or persons that can call off their attention from the pursuit of their own disordered imagination, and can fix it a little upon some others; these last may be frequently presented to them; and for this reason a journey, both by its having the effect of interrupting all train of thought, and by presenting objects engaging attention, may often be useful."
"as capitalist deterritorialization is developing from the center to the periphery, the decoding of flows on the periphery develops by means of a disarticulation that ensures the ruin of traditional sectors, the development of extraverted economic circuits, a specific hypertrophy of the tertiary sector, and an extreme inequality in the different areas of productivity and in incomes."
"It is no longer the ironic triumph of representation over resemblance; it is the obscure and repeated violence of desire battering at the limits of representation."
"Brulley, De fart de conjecturer en medecine (Paris, pp."
"And Glaucon was not mistaken when he cried out: Lord!"
"Hence the imperfect, precarious, and partial character of the calculation of certainties, and the fact that it sought for itself a confused basis that was opposed to its intrinsic technological meaning."
"The novel is conceived such that its end engenders its beginning (p. Proust's aesthetics and critical method are, ultimately, not outside his work but are the very heart of his creation: Proust will make this aesthetic into the real subject of his work (p."
"But when psychoanalysis makes of Oedipus its dogma, it is not unaware of the existence of relations said to be pre oedipal in the child, exo oedipal in the psychotic, para oedipal in others."
"At other times, the analytic dialogue was able to unfold to a greater extent, and in this case the Oedipal problem tended to assume its diachronic dimension, causing the generation gap to appear."
"As in the case of the Cartesian cogito, parents have nothing to do with these questions."
"There is only one kind of production, the production of the real."
"What molar unit will constitute a sufficiently nomadic circuit?"
"What happened during the years that preceded and immediately followed the Revolution was a new, sudden emergence of that consciousness."
"follow my example, I won't let go before you say,"
"Already, in the pathology of nerve fibres, most important of all was the need to see the immediate cause, and to ensure that it had a recognisable existence inside perception."
"It is therefore in a certain sense the imperceptible insensible."
"For the model itself is not the I either, but the body without organs."
"In this hasty recourse to the clinic, another clinic, with an entirely new configuration, was born."
"The first is the one that is obvious to all eyes: a groundless sadness in a man who wrongly accuses himself of having killed his own son, a deranged imagination that conjures up demons, and a disjointed reason that converses with a ghost."
"literature becomes progressively more differentiated from the discourse of ideas, and encloses itself within a radical intransitivity; it becomes detached from all the values that were able to keep it in general circulation during the Classical age (taste, pleasure, naturalness, truth), and creates within its own space everything that will ensure a ludic denial of them (the scandalous, the ugly, the impossible); it breaks with the whole definition of genres as forms adapted to an order of representations, and becomes merely a manifestation of a language which has no other law than that of affirming in opposition to all other forms of discourse its own precipitous existence; and so there is nothing for it to do but to curve back in a perpetual return upon itself, as if its discourse could have no other content than the expression of its own form; it addresses itself to itself as a writing subjectivity, or seeks to re apprehend the essence of all literature in the movement that brought it into being; and thus all its threads converge upon the finest of points singular, instantaneous, and yet absolutely universal upon the simple act of writing."
"For there can be no doubt: this way the despot has of committing incest, and of making it possible, in no way involves removing the apparatus of social and psychic repression (l'appareil repression refoutementt, On the contrary, the despot's intervention forms part of the apparatus, it changes only the parts of the machine; yet it is still as the displaced represented that incest now comes to occupy the position of the repressing representation."
"The history of madness cannot serve as a justification or as a supportive science in the pathology of mental illness."
"From the classical age, and for the first time, madness was seen through an ethical condemnation of idleness in the social immanence now grounded on a community of work."
"The Legislative Assembly went back on the principle of the nationalization of hospital capital; it preferred simply to divert its revenue into an assistance fund."
"For in what follows 'speech' must be understood not merely to mean the expression of thought in words, but to include the speech of gesture and every other method, such, for instance, as writing, by which mental activity can be expressed."
"; one thing, in any case, is certain:"
"This area, much more than the receptivity and attention at last being granted to things themselves, defines natural history's condition of possibility, and the appearance of its screened objects: lines, surfaces, forms, reliefs."
"The negative is the image of difference, but a flattened and inverted image, like the candle in the eye of the ox the eye of the dialectician dreaming of a futile combat?"
"Doctors and learned men seek to maintain the purity of the soul, and attempt to convince the madman that his madness is limited to the phenomena of the body."
"Infinite comprehension thus makes possible remembering and recognition, memory and self consciousness (even when these two faculties are not themselves infinite)."
"What are the syntheses into which they enter and operate?"
"The fear of madness and the isolation to which it was condemned indicate a region of darkness where madness was experienced in a primitive manner where it was recognised before it was known and where what could be historical in its evolving truth slowly took form."
"Before pathological anatomy could be readmitted into the clinic, a mutual agreement had to he worked out: on the one hand, new geographical lines, and, on the other, a new way of reading time."
"The dream content, on the other hand, is expressed as it were in a pictographic script (Bilderschrift), the characters of which have to be transposed individually into the language of the dreamthoughts."
"The history of metaphysics, like the history of the West, is the history of these metaphors and metonymies."
"Repetition, therefore, has a primary sense from the point of view of representation namely, that of a material and bare repetition, a repetition of the same (and not only under the same concept)."
"This time madness, insanity, will spare nothing, neither bodily nor purely intellectual perceptions."
"this until the end of the eighteenth century."
"And that, in depriving himself of the enjoyments and effects of his signs, the writer more effectively renounces violence?"
"Music and mythology bring man face to face with potential objects of which only the shadows are actualized."
", what is representation, if not a phenomenon of an empirical order which occurs within man, and could be analysed as such?"
"In defining the first instance by that form of qualitative opposition or contrariety, however, does not Plato already confuse the being of the sensible with a simple sensible being, with a pure qualitative being aistheton"
"As partial objects the desiringmachines undergo two totalizations, one when the socius confers on them a structural unity under a symbolic signifier acting as absence and lack in an aggregate of departure, the other when the family imposes on them a personal unity with imaginary signifieds that distribute, that vacuolize lack in an aggregate of destination: a double abduction of the orphan machines, inasmuch as the structure applies its articulation to them, inasmuch as the parents lay their fingers on them."
"It is now possible to define the instruments laid down for the use of Classical thought by the sign system."
"But the question is: In what form does reminiscence introduce time?"
"From the beginning of the war, but especially after the mass rising of autumn many doctors joined the army, either as volunteers or conscripts; the quacks had a free field.'"
"(Oedipus can be a myth, a tragedy, or a dream: it always expresses the displacement of the limit.)"
"Present in dreams, speech can time was hardly elucidated."
"The only danger in all this is that the virtual could be confused with the possible."
"Is it possible that, by taking the path that it has, psychoanalysis is reviving an age old tendency to humble us, to demean us, and to make us feel guilty?"
"And of course this decoding of the flows of painting, these schizoid lines of escape that form desiringmachines on the horizon, are taken up again in scraps from the old code, or else introduced into new codes, and first of all into a properly pictorial axiomatic that chokes off the escapes, closes the whole constellation to the transversal relations between lines and colors, and reduces it to archaic or new territorialities (perspective, for example)."
"Coinage can always bring back into the hands of its owner that which has just been exchanged for it, just as, in representation, a sign must be able to recall to thought that which it represents."
"On the other hand, it does change something in the mind which contemplates it."
"This is no doubt due to the fact that there are two ways of conceiving the limit of totalization."
"The chain is like the apparatus of transmission or of reproduction in the desiring machine."
"The exact geography of this path was never clearly mapped out for itself by the thought of the nineteenth century, but it was constantly travelled, from Cabanis to Ribot and Janet."
"Intensity or difference in itself thus expresses differential relations and their corresponding distinctive points."
"And yet at both ends of that order, two symmetrical and inverse figures demonstrate that there are limits which could be surpassed, while simultaneously signalling the importance of never going beyond them."
"Similarly, Plato's ignorance or forgetting are distinguished from error as much as from innateness and reminiscence itself."
"Must it not be an inviolable law in the administration of any public or private establishment for the insane that maniacs should be given the maximum of liberty that their safety and that of others permits, so that repression should be proportional to any danger that their behaviour might pose and that any facts that might aid the doctor in his choice of treatment should be carefully recorded, and particular differences in behaviour or temperament studied precisely so that gentleness or firmness, conciliatory terms or an imposing, authoritative tone and inflexible severity should be used accordingly?"
"The exit from the book, the other and the threshhold, are all articulated within the book."
"The transgression of metaphysics through the thought which, Artaud tells us, has not yet begun, always risks returning to metaphysics."
"Intensity, which envelops distances, is explicated in extensity, while extensity develops, exteriorises and homogenises these very distances."
"An analogy may also be turned around upon itself without thereby rendering itself open to dispute."
"The first was for the 'Maison de force', the dungeons, gaols and cells reserved for lettre de cachet prisoners; the second and third were for the 'deserving poor' and people paralysed to a greater or lesser degree; the mad and the alienated were reserved for the fourth section, while the final section was for the venereal, convalescents and the children of inmates."
"The Urstaat The city of Ur, the point of departure of Abraham or the new alliance."
"This causality is no longer caught up with the symbolism of qualities in the tautology of transposed meanings as it still was in the work of Bonet."
"We find ourselves here at the opposite pole to Greek tragedy, where the Furies themselves were the final destiny and truth that had lain in wait for the hero since the beginning of time, using his passion as their instrument."
"Underneath this side of the limit, and in the extent to which he wanted to save the purity of a presence without interior difference and without repetition (or, paradoxically amounting to the same thing, the purity of a pure difference), Artaud also desired the impossibility of the theater, wanted to erase the stage, no longer wanted to see what transpires in a locality always inhabited or haunted by the father and subjected to the repetition of murder."
"Who is mistaken about what he is, about what he is doing, and about the place where he is?"
"To the first synthesis of time there corresponds a first question problem complex as this appears in the living present (the urgency of life)."
"Adopting Malinowski's arguments, Reich added a profound remark: desire is all the more Oedipal as the prohibitions are aimed, not simply at incest, but at all other types of sexual relations, blocking the other paths."
"We see this when he attributes fixation to the Id: disguise is then understood from the perspective of a simple opposition of forces;"
"Bataille pulls it out of dialectics."
"Now you are set up as a body of people, but you still haven't found a way to force the rich to make the poor work?"
"This belief probably has the same origin as the other postulates of the dogmatic image: puerile examples taken out of context and arbitrarily erected into models."
"Others believe themselves to be guilty of crimes, so much so that they tremble with fear whenever they see someone approach, thinking that they will be arrested and taken away to prison, where justice will put them to death."
"anyone else that the King's government should choose to confine there'."
"Being is truly the differenciator of difference whence"
"He never manages to escape from the familiar plain stretching out on all sides of the Analogue, any more than he does from his own small province."
"Imagination, 'when sick, can only be cured by the effects of another healthy, properly employed imagination it matters little whether that cure is effected by fear, by a vivid or painful impression on the senses, or by an illusion'."
"Despite repeated efforts, madness never fitted completely into the rational order of species."
"the I speak from above time."
"The principle that medical knowledge formed for itself at the very bedside of the patient does not date from the end of the eighteenth century."
"The fundamental problem with regard to these texts is the following:"
"It is doing no more, then, than fulfilling with greater care the hasty demands laid down when the attempt was made to make the empirical, in man, stand for the transcendental."
"if you realize that he is not a god but a human being like yourself, with worries, defects, ambitions, frailties, that he is not the repository of an all encompassing wisdom =code but a wanderer, along the deterritorialized path, perhaps you will cease pouring it out like a sewer, however melodious it may sound to your ears, and rise up on your own two legs and sing with your own God given voice Numen."
"It is then not sufficient to say that in dreams, words are con densed by things and that inversely, nonverbal signifiers may be interpreted to a certain degree in terms of verbal representations."
"In the government decided to set up at Versailles a society for the study of the epidemic and epizootic phenomena that had increased considerably in recent years."
"In order to make a calculation of this kind, Cantillon begins with what is produced by the land, from which all wealth is directly or indirectly derived."
"A certain absence of madness is discernible throughout this entire experience of madness."
"But in a few years, the last years of the century, the clinic was to undergo a sudden, radical restructuring: detached from the theoretical context in which it was born, it was to be given a field of application that was no longer confined to that in which knowledge was said, but which was co extensive with that in which it was born, put to the test, and fulfilled itself:"
"The others, who were to be found indiscriminately in the pital ral, the workhouses, prisons and houses of correction, are then thought of as a series of patients whose sickness was yet to be identified by a medical science still in its infancy at that moment."
"That, it is supposed, is the reason for which they fear 'neither hot nor cold, tear at their clothes, and lie down naked in the depths of winter without feeling the cold'."
"Creation is but creation of the other; it can be only as paternity, and the relations of the father to son escape all the logical, ontological, and phenomenological categories in which the absoluteness of the other is necessarily the same."
"The method constituted by Bichat and his earliest followers left open two series of problems."
"And if they can be organized in such a way as to form species, it is not because they are essential expressions, but because they are local signs."
"At all events, the latter is stripped of all its powers; it is merely the female part of language, Vigen re"
"Amniotic fluid spilling out of the sac and kidney stones; flowing hair; a flow of spittle, a flow of sperm, shit, urine that are produced by partial objects and constantly cut off by othei tWhen"
"the other is deprived of it'."
"But this is a sure indication that as part of a movement of amused indulgence the figure of unreason is slowly allowed back into the light of day, precisely when it was thought to be most deeply hidden in the space of confinement."
"The origins of the savage treatment meted out to the insane in confinement are to be found in this imagery."
"Hippocrates seems to be both the last witness and the most ambiguous representative of this balance: fifth century Greek medicine would seem to be no more than the codification of this universal, yet immediate, clinical medicine; it formed the first total consciousness of this clinical medicine, and in this sense, it seems to he as 'pure and simple as that first experience; but insofar as it organizes it into a systematic corpus in order to facilitate and shorten the study of it a new dimension is introduced into medical experience: that of a corpus of knowledge that can be said to be, quite literally, blind, since it has no gaze."
"So we come back to the question: in each case what is the relationship between social production and desiring production, once it is said that they have identical natures and differing regimes?"
"A re<U+FB02>ection that shows us quite simply, and in shadow, what all those in the foreground are looking at."
"For its depth, and even more so for its frankness."
"The border between the non phonetic space of writing (even phonetic writing) and the space of the stage (scene) of dreams is uncertain."
"And yet the problem persists: how can all that function together?"
"One day, towards the end of the eighteenth century, Cuvier was to topple the glass jars of the Museum, smash them open and dissect all the forms of animal visibility that the Classical age had preserved in them."
"So what, precisely, is the knowledge that madness brings?"
"They can only sleep within the literary act which needs both their life and their lethargy."
"It is, rather, the index of a topographical description which external space, that is, familiar and constituted space, the exterior space of the natural sciences, cannot contain."
"It acted alternately on the labour market and on the cost of production."
"Long considered both a crime and a sacrilege, failed suicide attempts were therefore punishable by death: '"
"But who will be able to describe the desiring machines of each subject, what analysis will be exacting enough for this?"
", it is demonstrating that the sign, in the Classical age, is charged no longer with the task of keeping the world close to itself and inherent in its own forms, but, on the contrary, with that of spreading it out, of juxtaposing it over an indefinitely open surface, and of taking up from that point the endless deployment of the substitutes in which we conceive of it."
"It can never bear witness to its own truth, and there must be an intervention either by moral judgement or by an analysis of the physical causes."
"Earlier in the century was the more muted voice of a host of hospital directors, administrators and guards who from generation to generation constantly formulated and were occasionally granted the same request: the separation of the mad and the prisoners."
"Shall we have to abandon any epistemological requirement which permits us to distinguish between several qualities of discourse on the myth?"
"As Samir Amin has shown, the process of deterritorialization here goes from the center to the periphery, that is, from the developed countries to the undereveloped countries, which do not constitute a separate world, but rather an essential component of the world wide capitalist machine."
"In which case scarcity will limit itself (by a process of demographic stabilization) and labour will adjust itself exactly to needs (by a determined distribution of wealth)."
"The ambiguity of classical thought about the relationship between fault and madness was now to come apart, and the psychiatric thought of the nineteenth century was both to search for a total determinism and to attempt to pin down the point at which culpability could enter the process."
"the succession of the first four constitutes a half certainty, 'which forms the doubt itself, and may be regarded as a kind of balance'; beyond that probability begins."
"In the interval, Classical nature had given precedence to vegetable values since the plant bears upon its visible form the overt mark of every possible order; with all its forms on display, from stem to seed, from root to fruit, with all its secrets generously made visible, the vegetable kingdom formed a pure and transparent object for thought as tabulation."
": what is a text, and what must the psyche be if it can be represented by a text?"
"Therefore the death drive could not enter into a veritable dualism, or would have to be confused with the neutral energy itself, which Freud denies."
"As Jacques Monod says, we must conceive of a machine that is such by its functional properties but not by its structure, where nothing but the play of blind combinations can be discerned.'?"
"His aim, however, is to silence the empirical responses in order to open up the indeterminate horizon of a transcendental problem which is the object of an Idea."
"Not so much that which sees things a theoretical relation but that which exchanges its glance."
"Schizoanalysis is at once a transcendental and a materialist analysis."
"Or rather, isn't the support completely immaterial to these signs?"
"Division can therefore take place and be continued without any change in the nature of what is being divided."
"Stupidity can then be no more than an empirical determination, referring back to psychology or to the anecdotal or worse, to polemic and insults and to the especially atrocious pseudo literary genre of the sottisier."
"Itard, Rapport sur les nouveaux veloppements de Victor de l'Aveyron, edn.,."
"Consequently it was Couthon who visited Bic tre, and who for a moment was the master of the fate of the mad."
"This irregionality of the noema, the opening to the as such of Being and to the determination of the totality of regions in general, cannot be described, stricto sensu and simply, on the basis of a determined regional structure."
"The obligation to resort to him for sacred marriages, the only kind of marriage that enhanced the woman's position, therefore entailed ipso facto an exogamy."
"They progressively formed a unity in relation to a single form of madness, perceived all together in its opposition to the reasonable, and in what it manifested of itself to the rational."
"But does not the naked truth of the other appear beyond need, climate, and a certain history And always held in reserve, says Holderlin as commented on by Heidegger."
"Once Couthon had left, 'the philanthropist immediately set to work'."
"With this concerted use of the sign (which is already expression), something like a language is in the process of being born."
"As soon as he entered, his fetters were removed, and he was allowed to eat with the superintendents, and his agitation disappeared immediately. '"
"Hence capitalism does not lead to the dissolution of feudalism, but rather the contrary, and that is why so much time was required between the two."
"He was obliged to recognise the poor sanitary conditions at Bic tre"
"It is no longer content to overcode maintained and imbricated territorialities; it must constitute, invent codes for the decoded flows of money, commodities, and private property."
"As a consequence and degradation of that, it was not long before it was also classified into healthy or sick, normal or abnormal."
"But in any case the harm has been done, the treatment has chosen the path of oedipalization, all cluttered with refuse, instead of the schizophrenization that must cure us of the cure."
"But the revolutionary knows that escape is revolutionary withdrawal, freaks pr ided"
"role, but between life and death."
"Hitler annihilates the father and unleashes in him the forces of the Bad Mother; Luther internalizes the father and reaches a compromise with the superego."
"There must be continuity in nature."
"This is how the story of time ends: by undoing its too well centred natural or physical circle and forming a straight line which then, led by its own length, reconstitutes an eternally decentred circle."
"That is to say, as I have at least tried to demonstrate, toattempt to say the demonic hyperbole from whose heights thought is announced to itself, frightens itself, and reassures itself against being annihilated or wrecked in madness or in death."
"They were obviously decisive in that they formed the basis of 'positive psychiatry', and it was out of them that the myths of a finally objective and medical recognition of madness were born, bringing justification after the act by consecrating them as the discovery and liberation of the truth."
"This hypothesis, above all, will not flee the possibility of eccentricities epistemological ones in particular that are much more serious than those of madness."
"In Kant, therefore, difference remains external and as such empirical and impure, suspended outside the construction 'between' the determinable intuition and the determinant concept Mai'mon's genius lies in showing how inadequate the point of view of conditioning is for a transcendental philosophy:"
"In a word, the repression of incest is notborn of a repressed Oedipal representation any more than it provokes this repression."
"And all the signs assembled by Foucault under the chapter heading Stultifera navis would play themselves out only on the surface of a chronic dissension."
"Bopp's analyses were to be of major importance, not only in breaking down the internal composition of a language, but also in defining what language may be in its essence."
"However, such questions risk distorting the two theses they attempt to bring together."
"This is because the latter is remunerated by consumption, whereas ground rent represents, or ought to represent, the net product: the quantity of goods provided by nature over and above the subsistence it yields to the worker and the remuneration it demands for itself in order to go on producing."
"Despite the impression we may have of an almost uninterrupted development of the European ratio from the Renaissance to our own day, despite our possible belief that the classifications of Linnaeus, modified to a greater or lesser degree, can still lay claim to some sort of validity, that Condillac's theory of value can be recognized to some extent in nineteenth century marginalism, that Keynes was well aware of the affinities between his own analyses and those of Cantillon, that the language of general grammar (as exemplified in the authors of Port Royal or in Bauz e) is not so very far removed from our own"
"And all these insistent marks summoned up a secondary language that of commentary, exegesis, erudition in order to stir the language that lay dormant within them and to make it speak at last; the existence of language preceded, as if by a mute stubbornness, what one could read in it and the words that gave it sound."
"Psychic repression is delegated by the social formation, while the desiring formation is disfigured, displaced by psychic repression."
"It was certainly improbable that arachnids, ammonites, and annelids xviii preface should one day mingle on Eusthenes' tongue, but, after all, that welcoming and voracious mouth certainly provided them with a feasible lodging, a roof under which to coexist."
"Whereas Bosch, Brueghel and rer were earthly spectators pulled into the madness that they saw seething around them, Erasmus observes it from a distance that ensures that he is never drawn in."
"The fact there is massive social repression that has an enormous effect on desiring production in no way vitiates our principle: desire produces reality, or stated another way, desiring production is one and the same thing as social production."
"express itself in myth, in tragedy, in dream."
"The three errors concerning desire are called lack, law, and signifier."
"Savage formations are oral, are vocal, but not because they lack a graphic system: a dance on the earth, a drawing on a wall, a mark on the body are a graphic system, a geo graphism, a geography."
"For when at any time, a sickness happens in a woman's body, of an unusual manner, or more occult original, so that its cause lies hid, and the curatory indication is altogether uncertain, presently we accuse the evil influence of womb (which for the most part is innocent), and in every unusual symptom, we declare it to be something hysterical, and so to this scope, which oftentimes is only the subterfuge of ignorance, the medical intentions, and use of remedies are directed."
"The gesture sketched out by Freud interrupts that assurance and opens up a new kind of question about metaphor, writing, and spacing in general."
"A season in hell how could it be separated from denunciations of European families, from the call for destructions that don't come quickly enough, from the admiration for the convict, from llii!"
"As Sauvages noted, We call mad those who are currently deprived of reason or who persist in some notable error; and it is that constant error of the soul that is manifested in its imagination, in its judgements and desires that constitutes the character of this class."
"How, at the end of the sixteenth century, and even in the early seventeenth century, was similitude conceived?"
"As the two roles are reciprocal, and as intensity is in the first instance enveloped by itself, it must be said that the clear and the confused, as logical characteristics in the intensity which expresses the Idea in other words, in the individual which thinks it are no more separable than the distinct and the obscure are separable in the Idea itself."
"If the first passive synthesis constitutes an 'aesthetic', the second may properly be defined as the equivalent of an 'analytic'."
"figures that were absolutely foreign to men and the relations that existed between them."
"Confinement itself was questioned for the first time."
"Never is the adult an afterward of the child, but in the family both relate to the determinations of the field in which both the family and they are simultaneously immersed."
"Madness unveiled the elementary truth about man: it reduced him to his primitive desires, to his simple mechanisms, to the most pressing determinations of his body."
"The methods of exhaustion played this role in very diversedomains, as did analytic geometry."
"The progress indicated by Le Cid, which also aspires to the heights of Polyeucte is a progress in the Corneillean meaning (ibid."
"It was only a logical contradiction, which does not have much import, we read in The Wolf Man.)"
"From this point onwards, a new relation between love and unreason began to take shape."
"this is perhaps the ultimate wisdom of the West, in which the people of the Bible will be recognized ); and The spirit is free in the letter, and subju from the very person who proffers it."
"They were specified either by the circulatory mechanism that explained them (the inflammatory fever analysed by."
