"x"
"which I have made use of, will not distinctly enough express volition, unless he will reflect on what he himself does when he wills."
"But of and the precedency it ought to have before other arguments of persuasion"
"The meaning, therefore, of this political maxim is, that though the morality of princes has the same extent, yet it has not the same force as that of private persons, and may lawfully be trangressed from a more trivial motive."
"And then I desire an instance of an idea, pretended to be innate, which (before any impression of it by ways hereafter to be mentioned) any one could revive and remember, as an idea he had formerly known; without which consciousness of a former perception there is no remembrance; and whatever idea comes into the mind without consciousness is not remembered, or comes not out of the memory, nor can be said to be in the mind before that appearance."
"Now every idea a man has, being visibly what it is, and distinct from all other ideas but itself; that which makes it confused, is, when it is such that it may as well be called by another name as that which it is expressed by; the difference which keeps the things (to be ranked under those two different names) distinct, and makes some of them belong rather to the one and some of them to the other of those names, being left out; and so the distinction, which was intended to be kept up by those different names, is quite lost."
"Thus the existence of one God is according to reason; the existence of more than one God, contrary to reason; the resurrection of the dead, above reason."
"Names of simple Ideas, Modes, and Substances, have each something peculiar."
"But, at the same time that I give up this, I suspect all my other notions."
"Nothing can be plainer than that the motions, changes, decays, and dissolutions which we hourly see befall natural bodies (and which is what we mean by the course of nature) cannot possibly affect an active, simple, uncompounded substance; such a being therefore is indissoluble by the force of nature; that is to say, the soul of man is naturally immortal."
"Two triangles upon equal bases between two parallels are equal,' is of relation. '"
"Change of Relation may be without any Change in the things related."
"For as to the notion of external existence, when taken for something specially different from our perceptions Part."
"Which great difference in men's intellectuals, whether it rises from any defect in the organs of the body, particularly adapted to thinking; or in the dulness or untractableness of those faculties for want of use; or, as some think, in the natural differences of men's souls themselves; or some, or all of these together; it matters not here to examine: only this is evident, that there is a difference of degrees in men's understandings, apprehensions, and reasonings, to so great a latitude,"
"No form, you say, can subsist, unless it possess those powers and organs requisite for its subsistence: some new order or economy must be tried, and so on, without intermission; till at last some order, which can support and maintain itself, is fallen upon."
"We are not much satisfyed with the thing itself; and are still less apt to feel any new degrees of self satisfaction upon its account."
"Logika the business whereof is to consider the nature of signs, the mind makes use of for the understanding of things, or conveying its knowledge to others."
"The removal of the intention, removes the mortification in the one case, and vanity in the other, and must of course cause a remarkable diminution in the passions of love and hatred."
"Since we have instances, where general rules operate on the imagination even contrary to the judgment, we need not be surprized to see their effects encrease, when conjoined with that latter faculty, and to observe that they bestow on the ideas they present to us a force superior to what attends any other."
"But yet I cannot but think there is some small dull perception, whereby they are distinguished from perfect insensibility."
"Thus, a general is one that hath power to command an army, and an army under a general is a collection of armed men obliged to obey one man."
"But how much these few and narrow inlets are disproportionate to the vast whole extent of all beings, will not be hard to persuade those who are not so foolish as to think their span the measure of all things."
"On the contrary, things that move so swift as not to affect the senses distinctly with several distinguishable distances of their motion, and so cause not any train of ideas in the mind, are not also perceived."
"For I would ask any one, What is sufficient to make an essential difference in nature between any two particular beings, without any regard had to some abstract idea, which is looked upon as the essence and standard of a species?"
"But on my nearer approach, those circumstances, which I at first over looked, begin to appear, and have an influence on my conduct and affections."
"After considering it well on all sides, I can find but two."
"The causes, therefore, must be resembling."
"And as this absurdity is very glaring in itself, so there is no argument founded on it which is not attended with a new absurdity, and involves not an evident contradiction."
"Nor would this silence be an effect only of their respect, but also of their prudence; since it is certain, that in the vast variety of circumstances, which occur in all governments, an exercise of power, in so great a magistrate, may at one time be beneficial to the public, which at another time would be pernicious and tyrannical."
"Because in all our thoughts, reasonings, and discourses of this kind, we intend things no further than as they are conformable to our ideas."
"And thus the community perpetually retains a supreme power of saving themselves from the attempts and designs of any body, even of their legislators, whenever they shall be so foolish, or so wicked, as to lay and carry on designs against the liberties and properties of the subject: for no man or society of men, having a power to deliver up their preservation, or consequently the means of it, to the absolute will and arbitrarydominion of another; when ever any one shall go about to bring them into such a slavish condition, they will always have a right to preserve, what they have not a power to part with; and to rid themselves of those, who invade this fundamental, sacred, and unalterable law of self preservation, for which they entered into society."
"Our ideas seem to give a perfect assurance, that no two right lines can have a common segment; but if we consider these ideas, we shall find, that they always suppose a sensible inclination of the two lines, and that where the angle they form is extremely small, we have no standard of a I right line so precise as to assure us of the truth of this proposition."
"it runs insensibly, as the joy continually diminishes, into pure grief."
"In general we may observe, that both these principles operate on the will; and where they are contrary, that either of them prevails, according to the general character or present disposition of the person."
"It is undeniable; and, to speak the truth"
"Both philosophers and the vulgar suppose the first of these to have a distinct continued existence."
"The perception of the mind being most aptly explained by words relating to the sight, we shall best understand what is meant by and in our ideas, by reflecting on what we call clear and obscure in the objects of sight."
"And therefore he is certain all his knowledge concerning such ideas is real knowledge: because, intending things no further than they agree with those his ideas, he is sure what he knows concerning those figures, when they have in his mind, will hold true of them also when they have A in matter:"
"We consider him with all his relations in society; and love or hate him, according as he affects those, who have any immediate intercourse with him."
"that those who have children, or the charge of their education, would think it worth their while diligently to watch, and carefully to prevent the undue connexion of ideas in the minds of young people."
"; they could not but have greater apprehensions of others, than of one another: and therefore their first care and thought cannot but be supposed to be, how to secure themselves against foreign force."
"what the best season; the choice of these was left with the executive power, as might be most subservient to the public good, and best suit the ends of parliaments."
"Secondly, There are other ideas, whose agreement or disagreement can no otherwise be judged of but by the intervention of others which have not a certain agreement with the extremes, but an or one: and in these is that the is properly exercised; which is the acquiescing of the mind, that any ideas do agree, by comparing them with such probable mediums."
"Sometimes this distance has a greater influence than even contrary experiments would have; and a man may receive a more lively conviction from a probable reasoning, which is close and immediate, than from a long chain of consequences, though just and conclusive in each part."
"Let us remember, that pride and hatred invigorate the soul; and love and humility infeeble it."
"For we constantly desire happiness; and whatever we feel of uneasiness, so much it is certain we want of happiness; even in our own opinion, let our state and condition otherwise be what it will."
"Nor is it a wonder; since it requires much time, pains, and skill, strict inquiry, and long examination to find out what, and how many, those simple ideas are, which are constantly and inseparably united in nature, and are always to be found together in the same subject."
"For, though I should grant sound may mechanically cause a certain motion of the animal spirits in the brains of those birds, whilst the tune is actually playing; and that motion may be continued on to the muscles of the wings, and so the bird mechanically be driven away by certain noises, because this may tend to the bird's preservation;"
"Reasoning to be the separating or uniting of different ideas by the interposition of others, which show the relation they bear to each other."
"These powers of the mind, viz."
"And it arises so naturally, that there is nothing in us or belonging to us, which produces surprize, that does not at the same time excite that other passion."
"but though the relations be reciprocal they have very different effects on the imagination."
"For let it be ever so true, that all gold,."
"Now if we compare these two cases, of the open and concealed violations of the laws of honour, we shall find, that the difference betwixt them consists in this, that in the first ease the sign, from which we infer the blameable action, is single, and suffices alone to be the foundation of our reasoning and judgment; whereas in the latter the signs are numerous, and decide little or nothing when alone and unaccompanyed with many minute circumstances, which are almost imperceptible."
"A child knows not that three and four are equal to seven, till he comes to be able to count seven, and has got the name and idea of equality; and then, upon explaining those words, he presently assents to, or rather perceives the truth of that proposition."
"Then you will have me bring reasons against it: though another would think it reasonable the proof should lie on him who holds the affirmative."
"To think often, and never to retain it so much as one moment, is a very useless sort of thinking; and the soul, in such a state of thinking, does very little, if at all, excel that of a looking glass, which constantly receives variety of images, or ideas, but retains none; they disappear and vanish, and there remain no footsteps of them; the looking glass is never the better for such ideas, nor the soul for, such thoughts."
"and what can that be else, but"
"There is no reason why it should be thought strange that I make mobility belong to spirit; for having no other idea of motion, but change of distance with other beings that are considered as at rest; and finding that spirits, as well as bodies, cannot operate but where they are; and that spirits do operate at several times in several places, I cannot but attribute change of place to all finite spirits: (for of the Infinite Spirit I speak not here)."
"Another sort of trifling propositions is, A a part of the definition of the word defined."
"Simple Ideas are all real appearances of things."
"I can imagine to myself such a city as the New Jerusalem, whose pavement is gold and walls are rubies, though I never saw any such."
"Here then is a passion placed betwixt two ideas, of which the one produces it, and the other is produced by it."
"A defect in any of these particulars destroys the form; and the matter of which it is composed is again set loose, and is thrown into irregular motions and fermentations, till it unite itself to some other regular form."
"But whether one or both these differences be essential or specifical, is only to be known to us by their agreement or disagreement with the complex idea that the name man stands for: for by that alone"
"It suffices to our present purpose to show by these, what the ideas are we have of this comprehensive consideration called."
"The peripatetic philosophy asserts the original matter to be perfectly homogeneous in all bodies, and considers fire, water, earth, and air, as of the very same substance; on account of their gradual revolutions and changes into each other."
"When not so used, the Variation is to be explained."
"A blue and a red point may surely lie contiguous without any penetration or annihilation."
"For it must be observed, that the opinions of men, in this case, carry with them a peculiar authority, and are, in a great measure, infallible."
"Pardon me, Hylas, if I am desirous clearly to apprehend your notions, since this may much shorten our inquiry."
"Concerning the simple ideas of Sensation; it is to be considered, that whatsoever is so constituted in nature as to be able, by affecting our senses,"
"The same reasoning extends to identity."
"Other simple Modes of simple Ideas of sensation."
"Is it becoming a philosopher to alter his method of reasoning, and run from one principle to its contrary, according to the particular phaenomenon, which he would explain?"
"We may, perhaps, make it a greater question, whether the causes, that produce the passion, be as natural as the object, to which it is directed, and whether all that vast variety proceeds from caprice or from the constitution of the mind."
"I see no contradiction in supposing a desire of producing misery annexed to love, and of happiness to hatred."
"To conclude: Let us examine any modes of action,.g."
"What an immense profusion of beings, animated and organised, sensible and active!"
"by which is meant that they are more affecting, orderly, and distinct, and that they are not fictions of the mind perceiving them."
"So that in respect of actions within the reach of such a power in him, a man seems as free as it is possible for freedom to make him."
"We, who are limited and dependent spirits, are liable to impressions of sense, the effects of an external Agent, which, being produced against our wills, are sometimes painful and uneasy."
"To show the understanding proceeds herein is the design of the following Discourse; which I shall proceed to when I have first premised, that hitherto, to clear my way to those foundations which I conceive are the only true ones, whereon to establish those notions we can have of our own knowledge, it hath been necessary for me to give an account of the reasons I had to doubt of innate principles."
"But my meaning is, that we should not take up any one too hastily ("
"For, it being once furnished with simple ideas, it can put them together in several compositions, and so make variety of complex ideas, without examining whether they exist so together in nature."
"Secondly, whether you are informed, either by sense or reason, of the existence of those unknown originals?"
"But though every great distance produces an admiration for the distant object, a distance in time has a more considerable effect than that in space."
"And lastly, whether it be possible that whilst a man thus openly bids defiance to this innate law and supreme Lawgiver, all the bystanders, yea, even the governors and rulers of the people, full of the same sense both of the law and Law maker, should silently connive, without testifying their dislike or laying the least blame on it?"
"such as it is there seen and perceived to be."
"But if any one thinks there is any sense in that distinction, and that it is applicable to our present purpose, I desire him to put it into intelligible English; and then from thence draw a reason to show that immaterial spirits are not capable of motion."
"Thus, whether a family by degrees grew up into a commonwealth, and the fatherly authority being continued on to the elder son, every one in his turn growing up under it, tacitly submitted to it, and the easiness and equality of it not offending any one, every one acquiesced, till time seemed to have confirmed it, and settled a right of succession by prescription: or whether several families, or the descendants of several families, whom chance, neighbourhood, or business brought together, uniting into society, the need of a general, whose conduct might defend them against their enemies in war, and the great confidence the innocence and sincerity of that poor but virtuous age, (such as are almost all those which begin governments"
"By repeating this idea in our minds, and adding the repetitions together, we come by the ideas of the of it."
"An athlete whose muscles have been developed by training presents a handsome appearance; he is also better prepared for the contest."
"And for the same reason Esau went from his father, and his brother, and planted in mount Seir, Gen. And thus, without supposing any privatedominion, and property in Adam, over all the world, exclusive of all other men, which can no way be proved, nor any one's property be made out from it; but supposing the world given, as it was, to the children of men in common"
"No positive Idea of Infinity."
"only a relative, and consequently hypothetical being: that is to say, upon supposition there were to perceive them; without which they have no actuality of absolute existence, wherein creation might terminate."
"a good while one after another."
"He that will suppose it does, takes away the foundation of all knowledge and certainty; and he that needs any proof to make him certain, and give his assent to this proposition, that two are equal to two, will also have need of a proof to make him admit, that what is, is."
"They are not the sole causes."
", I declare positively I know not."
"If any man has the faculty of framing in his mind such an idea of a triangle as is here described, it is in vain to pretend to dispute him out of it, nor would I go about it."
"After what has been said, it is, I suppose, plain that our souls are not to be known in the same manner as senseless, inactive objects, or by way of idea."
"We cannot conceive how anything but impulse of body can move body; and yet that is not a reason sufficient to make us deny it possible, against the constant experience we have of it in ourselves, in all our voluntary motions; which are produced in us only by the free action or thought of our own minds, and are not, nor can be, the effects of the impulse or determination of the motion of blind matter in or upon our own bodies; for then it could not be in our power or choice to alter it."
"Secondly, That I shall not take railing for arguments, nor think either of these worth my notice, though I shall always look on myself as bound to give satisfaction to any one, who shall appear to be conscientiously scrupulous in the point, and shall shew any just grounds for his scruples."
"Had they fallen upon the just conclusion, they would have returned back to the situation of the vulgar, and would have regarded all these disquisitions with indolence and indifference."
"But it is not in that metaphysical sense of truth which we inquire here, when we examine, whether our ideas are capable of being true or false, but in the more ordinary acceptation of those words:"
"The mind has a different relish, as well as the palate; and you will as fruitlessly endeavour to delight all men with riches or glory (which yet some men place their happiness in) as you would to satisfy all men's hunger with cheese or lobsters; which, though very agreeable and delicious fare to some, are to others extremely nauseous and offensive: and many persons would with reason prefer the griping of an hungry belly to those dishes which are a feast to others."
"We may, I think, from the make of an oyster or cockle, reasonably conclude that it has not so many, nor so quick senses as a man, or several other animals; nor if it had, would it, in that state and incapacity of transferring itself from one place to another, be bettered by them."
"Now nothing is more evident, than that the human mind cannot form such an idea of two objects, as to conceive any connexion betwixt them, or comprehend distinctly that power or efficacy, by which they are united."
"The former of these, I think, may be called secondary qualities the latter, secondary qualities,. ."
"For if the appearances were constant, universally observable, in equidistant periods, they would serve mankind for measure of time as well were the motion away."
"This is sufficiently evident from experience."
"It is true; money implies a kind of representation of such objects, by the power it affords of obtaining them; and for that reason may still be esteemed proper to convey those agreeable images, which may give rise to the passion."
"if I please, to take it away from you again to morrow?."
"For (not to go so far as annihilation of any particular body)"
"never so well what little globules were, and what striking on another body was."
"it is that substances are determined into sorts or species; and that, it is evident, is by the nominal essence."
"To the making of any nominal essence, it is necessary, First, that the ideas whereof it consists have such a union as to make"
"The Atheist indeed will want the colour of an empty name to support his impiety; and the Philosophers may possibly find they have lost a great handle for trifling and disputation. ."
"The design of the author, where it is a testimony out of a book cited."
"Besides, there is scarce any particular thing existing, which, in some of its simple ideas, does not communicate with a greater, and in others a less number of particular beings: who shall determine in this case which are those that are to make up the precise collection that is to be signified by the specific name?"
": whereof there are two sorts, viz."
"The real nature of this position of bodies is unknown."
"In this kind the first and most palpable abuse is, the using of words without clear and distinct ideas; or, which is worse, signs without anything signified."
"All of them, by concert, enter into a scheme of actions, calculated for common benefit, and agree to be true to their word; nor is there any thing requisite to form this concert or convention, but that every one have a sense of interest in the faithful fulfilling of engagements, and express that sense to other members of the society."
"Those who say otherwise, speak as if the prince had a distinct and separate interest from the good of the community, and was not made for it; the root and source from which spring almost all those evils and disorders which happen in kingly governments."
"Yes, it is infinitely more extravagant to say a thing which is inert operates on the mind, and which is unperceiving"
"Since the whole strength of the certainty depends upon our knowledge that God revealed it; which, in this case, where the proposition supposed revealed contradicts our knowledge or reason, will always have this objection hanging to it, viz."
"Unless the cases be exactly similar, they repose no perfect confidence in applying their past observation to any particular phenomenon."
"From whence I think it easy to draw this observation, that the ideas of primary qualities of bodies are resemblances of them, and their patterns do really exist in the bodies themselves, but the ideas produced in us by these secondary qualities have no resemblance of them at all."
"It would also follow that the names of substances would not only have, as in truth they have, but would also be supposed to have different significations, as used by different men, which would very much cumber the use of language."
"Such are all propositions wherein the genus is predicated of the species, or more comprehensive of less comprehensive terms."
"you Anthropomorphites, how to account for it."
"A man that is ungrateful to his benefactor, in a manner affirms, that he never received any favours from him."
"All the great ends of morality and religion are well enough secured, without philosophical proofs of the soul's immateriality; since it is evident, that he who made us at the beginning to subsist here, sensible intelligent beings, and for several years continued us in such a state, can and will restore us to the like state of sensibility in another world, and make us capable there to receive the retribution he has designed to men, according to their doings in this life."
"Thirdly, Even our sight informs us not of distance or outness (so to speak) immediately and without a certain reasoning and experience, as is acknowledged by the most rational philosophers."
"That certainly can never be thought innate which we have need of reason to discover; unless, as I have said, we will have all the certain truths that reason ever teaches us, to be innate."
"And to convince others of this, I know no readier or fairer way than to entreat"
"But whatever flatterers may talk to amuse people's understandings, it hinders not men from feeling; and when they perceive, that any man, in what station soever, is out of the bounds of the civil society which they are of, and that they have no appeal on earth against any harm, they may receive from him, they are apt to think themselves in the state of nature, in respect of him whom they find to be so; and to take care, as soon as they can, to have that safety and security in civil society, for which it was first instituted, and for which only they entered into it."
"And I am apt too to imagine, that it is perception, in the lowest degree of it, which puts the boundaries between animals and the inferior ranks of creatures."
"The wretched condition, weakness, and disorder of the faculties, I must employ in my enquiries, encrease my apprehensions."
"or were they given to men alone for this end?"
"But whatever be the consequence of any man's using of words differently, either from their general meaning, or the particular sense of the person to whom he addresses them; this is certain, their signification, in his use of them, is limited to his ideas, and they can be signs of nothing else."
"It will only be proper, before we leave this subject, to draw some corrollaries from it, by which we may remove several prejudices and popular errors, that have very much prevailed in philosophy."
"Thus, methinks, every drowsy nod shakes their doctrine, who teach that the soul is always thinking."
"my imagining what others mean, when they make the world one thousand years older, since every one may with the same facility imagine"
"If these papers have that evidence, I flatter myself is to be found in them, there will be no great miss of those which are lost, and my reader may be satisfied without them: for I imagine, I shall have neither the time, nor inclination to repeat my pains, and fill up the wanting part of my answer, by tracing Sir Robert again, through all the windings and obscurities, which are to be met with in the several branches of his wonderful system."
"should he tell me, that these opinions are obviously absurd, and repugnant to our clear ideas; I would answer, that I do not deny, where two right lines incline upon each other with a sensible angle, but it is absurd to imagine them to have a common segment."
"But by asserting that actions render a person criminal, merely as they are proofs of criminal passions or principles in the mind; and when by any alteration of these principles they cease to be just proofs, they likewise cease to be criminal."
"Our esteem, therefore, proceeds not from sympathy."
"Natural Causes of their Imperfection, especially in those that stand for Mixed Modes, and for our ideas of Substances."
"If those ideas which are constantly joined to all others, must therefore be concluded to be the essence of those things which have constantly those ideas joined to them, and are inseparable from them; then unity is without doubt the essence of everything."
"By a microscope, doubtless."
"I believe we may assign the three following reasons for the prevalance of the doctrine of liberty,"
"It is very happy, in our philosophical researches, when we find the same phaenomenon diversified by a variety of circumstances; and by discovering what is common among them, can the better assure ourselves of the truth of any hypothesis we may make use of to explain it."
"Nor were these the chief advantages of that happy age."
"Virtutem cum pietate conjunctam optimum esse rationem cultus divini."
"On the other hand, a convenient house, and a virtuous character, cause not the same feeling of approbation; even though the source of our approbation be the same, and flow from sympathy and an idea of their utility."
"And the same necessity of conforming his ideas of to things without him, as to archetypes made by nature, that Adam was under, if he would not wilfully impose upon himself, the same are all men ever since under too."
"Nothing is more apparent to the senses, than the distinction betwixt a curve and a right line; nor are there any ideas we more easily form than the ideas of these objects."
"It is the same case, if instead calling thought a modification of the soul, we should give it the more antient, and yet more modish name of an action."
"But here is an argument, which proves at once, that the foregoing proposition is neither intuitively nor demonstrably certain."
"It were therefore to be wished, That men versed in physical inquiries, and acquainted with the several sorts of natural bodies, would set down those simple ideas wherein they observe the individuals of each sort constantly to agree."
"Any satisfaction, which we lately enjoyed, and of which the memory is fresh and recent, operates on the will with more violence, than another of which the traces are decayed, and almost obliterated."
"Though we may be fully convinced, that the latter object excels the former, we are not able to regulate our actions by this judgment; but yield to the sollicitations of our passions, which always plead in favour of whatever is near and contiguous."
"Secondly, Because we find that an Idea from actual Sensation, and another from memory, are very distinct Perceptions."
"In the last harangue which he made on that memorable occasion, he publicly avowed, that the greatest prosperities which he had ever enjoyed, had been mixed with so many adversities, that he might truly say he had never enjoyed any satisfaction or contentment."
"But a person of a fine ear, who has the command of himself, can separate these feelings, and give praise to what deserves it."
"The Denominations of Actions often mislead us."
"The degree of any passion depends upon the nature of its object; and an affection directed to a person, who is considerable in our eyes, fills and possesses the mind much more than one, which has for its object a person we esteem of less consequence."
"I easily grant that there are great numbers of opinions which, by men of different countries, educations, and tempers, are received and embraced as first and unquestionable principles;"
"But the refined and philosophical sceptics fall into an inconsistence of an opposite nature."
"How uncertain and imperfect would our ideas be of an ellipsis, if we had no other idea of it, but some few of its properties?"
"Nor is such a question any way material to our present purpose."
"Misuse of Words the great Cause of Errors."
"and you know not why."
"When every individual of any species of objects is found by experience to be constantly united with an individual of another species, the appearance of any new individual of either species naturally conveys the thought to its usual attendant."
"An action, or sentiment, or character is virtuous or vicious; why?"
"The table before me is alone sufficient by its view to give me the idea of extension."
"And thus our simple ideas are all real and true, because they answer and agree to those powers of things which produce them on our minds;"
"In the first place, I shall consider the wrong judgments men make of good and evil, whereby their desires are misled."
"To say, that the different ideas which compose the reason of the Supreme Being, fall into order of themselves, and by their own nature, is really to talk without any precise meaning."
"Let us suppose several men together, all endued with the same faculties, and consequently affected in like sort by their senses, and who had yet never known the use of language; they would, without question, agree in their perceptions."
"As a bird, watching over her fledgelings, is more afraid of their being attacked by snakes if she were to leave them even though, were she to stay, she would not be any more capable of helping them, when they were with her."
"In causing this mistake there concur both the relations of causation and resemblance."
"It is evident, that as the ideas of the several distinct, successive qualities of objects are united together by a very close relation, the mind, in looking along the succession, must be carryed from one part of it to another by an easy transition, and will no more perceive the change, than if it contemplated the same unchangeable object."
"There are some metaphysicians, who answer, that since matter and extension are the same, the annihilation of one necessarily implies that of the other; and there being now no distance betwixt the walls of the chamber, they touch each other; in the same manner as my hand touches the paper, which is immediately before me."
"The architect would in vain display his subtlety, and prove to you, that if this door or that window were altered, greater ills would ensue."
"Our belief, thus grounded, rises to."
"But to be convinced of its falsehood we need but reflect on the foregoing conclusion, that the idea of duration is always derived from a succession of changeable objects, and can never be conveyed to the mind by any thing stedfast and unchangeable."
"which the mind, that would always penetrate into the causes of things, and have principles to rest on, is very apt to do) till we have very well examined particulars, and made several experiments, in that thing which we would explain by our hypothesis, and see whether it will agree to them all; whether our principles will carry us quite through, and not be as inconsistent with one phenomenon of nature, as they seem to accommodate and explain another."
"But as soon as any new uneasiness comes in, this happiness is disturbed, and we are set afresh on work in the pursuit of happiness."
"If so; how comes it that all mankind distinguish between them?"
"It is impossible, therefore, that this idea of existence can be annexed to the idea of any object, or form the difference betwixt a simple conception and belief."
"nay whole nations, who doubt or disbelieve some or all of them"
"What is positive, what negative, in our Idea of Infinite."
"Thus we have established two truths without any obstacle or difficulty, that and that A."
"And this decision we always pronounce at first sight, without any enquiry or reasoning."
"As the place happens to be variously defined, the motion which is related to it varies."
"A greater force and vivacity in the impression naturally conveys a greater to the related idea; and it is on the degrees of force and vivacity, that the belief depends, according to the foregoing system."
"and shall we build on that conjecture as on the most certain truth?"
"Those who are united into one body, and have a common established law and judicature to appeal to, with authority to decide controversies between them, and punish offenders, are in civil society one with another: but those who have no such common appeal, I mean on earth, are still in the state of nature, each being, where there is no other, judge for himself, and executioner; which is, as I have before shewed it, the perfect state of nature."
"But then I ask, if the removal of design be able entirely to remove the passion of love and hatred?"
"Interest, though it does a great deal in the case, yet cannot be thought to work whole societies of men to so universal a perverseness, as that every one of them to a man should knowingly maintain falsehood: some at least must be allowed to do what all pretend to, ie to pursue truth sincerely; and therefore there must be something that blinds their understandings, and makes them not see the falsehood of what they embrace for real truth."
"Actions are, indeed, better indications of a character than words, or even wishes and sentiments; but it is only so far as they are such indications, that they are attended with love or hatred, praise or blame."
"To this my answer is, that if the word be taken in the vulgar sense for a combination of sensible qualities, such as extension, solidity, weight, and the like this we cannot be accused of taking away: but if it be taken in a philosophic sense for the of accidents or then indeed I acknowledge that we take it away, if one may be said to take away that"
"These, for the most part, the several sects of philosophy and religion have introduced."
"Were I present at any of the more terrible operations of surgery, it is certain, that even before it begun, the preparation of the instruments, the laying of the bandages in order, the heating of the irons, with all the signs of anxiety and concern in the patient and assistants, would have a great effect upon my mind, and excite the strongest sentiments of pity and terror."
"What then is meant by a distinction of reason, since it implies neither a difference nor separation."
"Though distant objects may sometimes seem productive of each other, they are commonly found upon examination to be linked by a chain of causes, which are contiguous among themselves, and to the distant objects; and when in any particular instance we cannot discover this connexion, we still presume it to exist."
"It is difficult to tell, on many occasions, what it is that renders one man's conversation so agreeable and entertaining, and another's so insipid and distasteful."
"I will have it to be Spirit, you Matter, or I know not what"
"Having by these divisions given an order and arrangement to our objects, we may now apply ourselves to consider with the more accuracy their qualities and relations."
"In ages of stupidity and ignorance, indeed, these principles may safely be espoused; and perhaps no views of things are more proper to promote superstition, than such as encourage the blind amazement, the diffidence, and melancholy of mankind."
"No distinction is more usual in all systems of ethics, than that betwixt natural abilities and moral virtues; where the former are placed on the same footing with bodily endowments, and are supposed to have no merit or moral worth annexed to them."
"For to imprint anything on the mind without the mind's perceiving it, seems to me hardly intelligible."
"We are said to be in possession of any thing, not only when we immediately touch it, but also when we are so situated with respect to it, as to have it in our power to use it; and may move, alter, or destroy it, according to our present pleasure or advantage."
"and like inquiries have given infinite amusement to philosophers in all ages; but depending on the existence of Matter, they have no longer any place on our principles."
"We consider him as a person capable of contributing to the happiness or enjoyment of his fellow creatures, whose sentiments, with regard to him, we naturally embrace."
"From these variations of temper proceeds the great difficulty of deciding concerning the actions and resolutions of men, where there is any contrariety of motives and passions."
"It has been observed in another place that the theorems and demonstrations in Geometry are conversant about universal ideas (sect."
"I know I am not the cause"
"On this Hypothesis, the Soul must have Ideas not derived from Sensation or Reflection, of which there is no Appearance."
"The result of all which is that we are thrown into the most hopeless and abandoned scepticism."
"And yet, upon recollection, I believe you will find this to have been often, if not always, the case."
"But there is a peculiar advantage in power, by the contrast, which is, in a manner, presented to us, betwixt ourselves and the person we command."
"Explain to me now, Philonous!"
"Hence it is that in martial discipline, the uniformity and lustre of our habit, the regularity of our figures and motions, with all the pomp and majesty of war, encourage ourselves and allies; while the same objects in the enemy strike terror into us, though agreeable and beautiful in themselves."
"For if there be no prospect beyond the grave, the inference is certainly right 'Let us eat and drink,' let us enjoy what we delight in, 'for to morrow we shall die.'"
"And what are the essences of those species set out and marked by names, but those abstract ideas in the mind; which are, as it were, the bonds between particular things that exist, and the names they are to be ranked under?"
"This is the language of the heathen philosophers, who well understood wherein their notions of virtue and vice consisted."
"For, since consciousness always accompanies thinking, and it is that which makes every one to be what he calls self, and thereby distinguishes himself from all other thinking things, in this alone consists personal identity, ie the sameness of a rational being: and as far as this consciousness can be extended backwards to any past action or thought, so far reaches the identity of that person; it is the same self"
"we have already shewn its absurdity."
"We can form no idea of a mountain without a valley, and therefore regard it as impossible."
"Upon the whole matter, I think that our ideas, as they are considered by the mind, either in reference to the proper signification of their names; or in reference to the reality of things, may very fitly be called or ideas, according as they agree or disagree to those patterns to which they are referred."
"Good morrow, Hylas: I did not expect to find you abroad so early."
"In Matters where Reason can afford certain Knowledge, that is to be hearkened to."
"Or if he think he can refine his ideas to that degree, without losing sight of them, let him add ten cyphers to each of those numbers."
"Ideas never admit of a total union, but are endowed with a kind of impenetrability, by which they exclude each other, and are capable of forming a compound by their conjunction, not by their mixture."
"It must resolve itself into the idea of extension or of solidity; and consequently the reality of motion depends upon that of these other qualities."
"If we find that all these causes are related to self, and produce a pleasure or uneasiness separate from the passion, there will remain no farther scruple with regard to the present system."
"Things, as far as we can observe, lessen and augment, as the quantity does in a regular cone; where, though there be a manifest odds betwixt the bigness of the diameter at a remote distance, yet the difference between the upper and under, where they touch one another, is hardly discernible."
"The diminution of the union, and of the resemblance, as above explained, diminishes the facility of the transition, and by that means weakens the evidence; and we may farther observe, that the same diminution of the evidence will follow from a diminution of the impression, and from the shading of those colours, under which it appears to the memory or senses."
"Every idea is derived from preceding impressions; and we have no impression of self or substance, as something simple and individual."
"That cause, which excites the passion, is related to the object, which nature has attributed to the passion; the sensation, which the cause separately produces, is related to the sensation of the passion: From this double relation of ideas and impressions, the passion is derived."
"And such is the quality, which determines the object of pride and humility."
"For how can an effect, which either is finite, or, for aught we know, may be so; how can such an effect, I say, prove an infinite cause?"
"As to the doctrine, that time is nothing but the manner, in which some real objects exist; we may observe, that it is liable to the same objections as the similar doctrine with regard to extension."
"For the natural tendency of the mind being towards knowledge; and finding that, if it should proceed by and dwell upon only particular things, its progress would be very slow, and its work endless; therefore, to shorten its way to knowledge, and make each perception more comprehensive, the first thing it does, as the foundation of the easier enlarging its knowledge, either by contemplation of the things themselves that it would know, or conference with others about them, is to bind them into bundles, and rank them so into sorts, that what knowledge it gets of any of them it may thereby with assurance extend to all of that sort; and so advance by larger steps in that which is its great business, knowledge."
"Some there are of great note who, not content with holding that finite lines may be divided into an infinite number of parts, do yet farther maintain that each of those infinitesimals is itself subdivisible into an infinity of other parts or infinitesimals of a second order, and so on ad infinitum."
"By sense you only know that you are affected with such certain sensations of light and colours, andc."
"This change is imperceptible; but is, however, of the last consequence."
"Nor is it at all material to say, that this same, and this distinct consciousness, in the cases above mentioned, is owing to the same and distinct immaterial substances, bringing it with them to those bodies; which, whether true or no, alters not the case: since it is evident the personal identity would equally be determined by the consciousness, whether that consciousness were annexed to some individual immaterial substance or no."
"And that the species of things to us are nothing but the ranking them under distinct names, according to the complex ideas in and not according to precise, distinct, real essences in is plain from hence: That we find many of the individuals that are ranked into one sort, called by one common name, and so received as being of one species, have yet qualities, depending on their real constitutions, as far different one from another as from others from which they are accounted to differ specifically."
"But I think that nobody will therefore say, that the Christian religion is built upon these maxims, or that the knowledge we have of it is derived from these principles."
"The objects seem so inseparable, that we interpose not a moment's delay in passing from the one to the other."
"God hath given to mankind, hath, by the unjust violence and slaughter he hath committed upon one, declared war against all mankind, and therefore may be destroyed as a lion or a tyger, one of those wild savage beasts, with whom men can have no society nor security: and upon this is grounded that great law of nature, Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed."
", it is the colour of withered leaves falling in autumn."
"For every man is able to perceive with absolute certainty that he himself exists, that God must exist, and that finite beings other than himself exist; the first of these perceptions being awakened by all our ideas, the second as the consequence of perception of the first, and the last in the reception of our simple ideas of sense (chh."
"The resemblance of their appearance deceives the mind, as is usual, and makes us imagine a thorough resemblance and conformity."
"And to be commanded we do consent"
"that it is an innate truth, known to all men, is also false."
"Hence it is, that the controversies that happen between any man of the society with those that are out of it, are managed by the public; and an injury done to a member of their body, engages the whole in the reparation of it."
"What a question that is!"
"Nor can we justly complain of our ignorance in this great point; since he has so plentifully provided us with the means to discover and know him; so far as is necessary to the end of our being, and the great concernment of our happiness."
"And since I impartially search after truth, I shall not be sorry to be convinced, that I have been too fond of my own notions;"
"These two passions are contrary to each other; but in order to make this contrariety be felt, the objects must be someway related; otherwise the affections are totally separate and distinct, and never encounter."
"The change of the objects is so easy, that the mind is scarce sensible of it, but applies itself to the conception of the related idea with all the force and vivacity it acquired from the present impression."
"meaning by that inquiry nothing but the name."
"This has already appeared in so many instances, that we may spare ourselves the trouble of enlarging upon it any farther."
"It is here worth observing, that the vanity of power, or shame of slavery, are much augmented by the consideration of the persons, over whom we exercise our authority, or who exercise it over us."
"As for the difficulties other opinions may be liable to, those are out of the question."
"The custom of imagining a dependence has the same effect as the custom of observing it would have."
"And further enlarge our complex ideas, by still leaving out properties contained in them."
"Any thing, that gives a pleasant sensation, and is related to self, excites the passion of pride, which is also agreeable, and has self for its object."
"This way of reasoning discovers no new proofs, but is the art of marshalling and ranging the old ones we have already."
"But then we differ as to the kind of this powerful Being."
"What a small part of the substantial beings that are in the universe the want of ideas leaves open to our knowledge, we have seen."
"In every case, therefore, we must judge of the one by the other; and may pronounce any quality of the mind virtuous, which causes love or pride; and any one vicious, which causes hatred or humility."
"The reason whereof is evident from the nature of our happiness and misery itself."
"This is the case with good nature, good humour, facility, generosity, beauty, and many other qualities."
"afterwards, that the imagination naturally turns to whatever is important and considerable; and where two objects are presented to it, a small and a great one, usually leaves the former, and dwells entirely upon the latter."
"but, Philonous, you take me wrong."
"Unquestionable Testimony, and our own Experience that a thing is for the most part so, produce Confidence."
"Wherever an object has a tendency to produce pleasure in the possessor, or in other words, is the proper cause of pleasure, it is sure to please the spectator, by a delicate sympathy with the possessor."
"And therefore truth as well as knowledge may well come under the distinction of verbal and real; that being only verbal truth, wherein terms are joined according to the agreement or disagreement of the ideas they stand for; without regarding whether our ideas are such as really have, or are capable of having, an existence in nature."
"But there needs no enumeration of any more absurdities and impossibilities in this hypothesis (however full of them it be) than that before mentioned; since, let this thinking system be all or a part of the matter of the universe, it is impossible that any one particle should either know its own, or the motion of any other particle, or"
"For as the very idea of equality is that of such a particular appearance corrected by juxtaposition or a common measure."
"The question is, by what means a superior number of equal chances operates upon the mind, and produces belief or assent; since it appears, that it is neither by arguments derived from demonstration, nor from probability."
"The more recent this memory is, the clearer is the idea; and when after a long interval he would return to the contemplation of his object, he always finds its idea to be much decayed, if not wholly obliterated."
"Another faculty we may take notice of in our minds is that of and between the several ideas it has."
"The modern philosophy pretends to be entirely free from this defect, and to arise only from the solid, permanent, and consistent principles of the imagination."
"numbers and figures, can be set down by visible and lasting marks, wherein the ideas under consideration are perfectly determined; which for the most part they are not, where they are marked only by names and words."
"And who knows what methods to enlarge our knowledge in other parts of science may hereafter be invented, answering that of algebra in mathematics, which so readily finds out the ideas of quantities to measure others by; whose equality or proportion we could otherwise very hardly, or, perhaps, never come to know?."
"To this it will be that every name that has a definition is thereby restrained to one certain signification."
"The dull man, who loses the opportunity, whilst he is seeking in his mind for those ideas that should serve his turn, is not much more happy in his knowledge than one that is perfectly ignorant."
"But, we are told, the mind being able to consider each quality singly, or abstracted from those other qualities with which it is united,"
"Even supposing the reader should peruse these two compositions without any interval, he would feel little or no difficulty in the change of passions:"
"Now, whether the minds of men have naturally imprinted on them the ideas of extension and number, I leave to be considered by those who are the patrons of innate principles."
"In short, extension, figure, and motion, abstracted from all other qualities, are inconceivable."
"Which will not appear so much a paradox to any one who will but consider how far men are yet from knowing all the properties of that one, no very compound figure, a triangle; though it be no small number that are already by mathematicians discovered of it."
"Secondly, If it were possible, it would yet be useless; because it would not serve to the chief end of language."
"Since you will not tell me where it exists, be pleased to inform me after what manner you suppose it to exist, or what you mean by its It neither thinks nor acts, neither perceives nor is perceived."
"This I think, that, bating those places, which brought the Peripatetic Philosophy into their schools, where it continued many ages, without teaching the world anything but the art of wrangling, these maxims were nowhere thought the foundations on which the sciences were built, nor the great helps to the advancement of knowledge."
"This difficulty, when joined with a small distance, interrupts and weakens the fancy:"
"The merit and demerit of actions frequently contradict, and sometimes controul our natural propensities."
"This variety of pursuits shows, that every one does not place his happiness in the same thing, or choose the same way to it."
"Without such a revelation, the believing, or not believing, that proposition, or book, to be of divine authority, can never be matter of faith, but matter of reason; and such as I must come to an assent to only by the use of my reason, which can never require or enable me to believe that which is contrary to itself: it being impossible for reason ever to procure any assent to that which to itself appears unreasonable."
"But the person is not responsible for it; and as it proceeded from nothing in him, that is durable or constant, and leaves nothing of that nature behind it, it is impossible he can, upon its account, become the object of punishment or vengeance."
"The opposition will always discover the sense, in which it is taken."
"Men may choose different things, and yet all choose right; supposing them only like a company of poor insects; whereof some are bees, delighted with flowers and their sweetness; others beetles, delighted with other kinds of viands, which having enjoyed for a season, they would cease to be, and exist no more for ever."
"I shall begin with the simple idea of."
"But not to lose time in examining, whether it is possible for our senses to deceive us, and represent our perceptions as distinct from ourselves, that is as external to and independent of us; let us consider whether they really do so, and whether this error proceeds from an immediate sensation, or from some other causes."
"On the other hand, good humour is loved and esteemed, because it is immediately agreeable to the person himself."
"To begin with the coherence; we may observe, that though those internal impressions, which we regard as fleeting and perishing, have also a certain coherence or regularity in their appearances, yet it is of somewhat a different nature, from that which we discover in bodies."
"Every act of sensation, when duly considered, gives us an equal view of both parts of nature, the corporeal and spiritual."
"The whole system, therefore, is entirely incomprehensible, and yet is derived from principles as natural as any of these above explained."
"Suppose that a person die without children, and that a dispute arises among his relations concerning his inheritance; it is evident, that if his riches be deriv'd partly from his father, partly from his mother, the most natural way of determining such a dispute, is, to divide his possessions, and assign each part to the family, from whence it is deriv'd."
"No two Parts of Duration can be certainly known to be equal."
"He that, in the state of nature, would take away the freedom that belongs to any one in that state, must necessarily be supposed to have a design to take away every thing else, that freedom being the foundation of all the rest; as he that, in the state of society, would take away the freedom belonging to those of that society or commonwealth, must be supposed to design to take away from them every thing else, and so be looked on as in a state of war."
"He that doth otherwise, transgresses against his own light, and misuses those faculties which were given him to no other end, but to search and follow the clearer evidence and greater probability."
"This and the like may be urged in opposition to our tenets."
"I have objected to the system, which establishes eternal rational measures of right and wrong, that it is impossible to shew, in the actions of reasonable creatures, any relations, which are not found in external objects; and therefore, if morality always attended these relations, it were possible for inanimate matter to become virtuous or vicious."
"By degrees the repetition produces a facility of the human mind, and an infallible source of pleasure, where the facility goes not beyond a certain degree."
"Every quality being a distinct thing from another, may be conceived to exist apart, and may exist apart, not only from every other quality, but from that unintelligible chimera of a substance."
"The idea of heat or light, which we receive by our eyes, or touch, from the sun, are commonly thought real qualities existing in the sun, and something more than mere powers in it."
"When we find out an idea by whose intervention we discover the connexion of two others, this is a revelation from God to us by the voice of reason:"
"It is nevertheless evident that, in truth and strictness, nothing can be and the coach is not then properly perceived by sense, but suggested from experience."
"It seems then you have only a relative of it, or that you conceive it not otherwise than by conceiving the relation it bears to sensible qualities?"
"The newness and greatness of the event, the confusion of wishes and joys so embarrass the mind, that it knows not on what passion to fix itself; from whence arises a fluttering or unsettledness of the spirits which being, in some degree, uneasy, very naturally degenerates into fear."
"Note: To make this appear with all the light and evidence of an axiom, it seems sufficient if I can but awaken the reflection of the reader, that he may take an impartial view of his own meaning, and in turn his thoughts upon the subject itself, free and disengaged from all embarrass of words and prepossession in favour of received mistakes."
", was most necessary; and therefore they made ideas of very nicely modified, and gave those complex ideas names, that they might the more easily record and discourse of those things they were daily conversant in, without long ambages and circumlocutions; and that the things they were continually to give and receive information about might be the easier and quicker understood."
"In it the mind observes a great variety of modifications, and from thence receives distinct ideas."
"Sensitive Knowledge of the particular Existence of finite beings without us."
"But if things were distinguished into species, according to their real essences, it would be as impossible to find different properties in any two individual substances of the same species, as it is to find different properties in two circles, or two equilateral triangles."
"This I have here mentioned, by the by, to show of what consequence it is for men, in their names of mixed modes, and consequently in all their moral discourses, to define their words when there is occasion: since thereby moral knowledge may be brought to so great clearness and certainty."
"We keep a stir about knowledge, and spend our lives in the pursuit of it, when, alas I"
"Third cause of Error, Want of Will to use them."
"So little are men governed by reason in their sentiments and opinions, that they always judge more of objects by comparison than from their intrinsic worth and value."
"Our knowledge, therefore, is real only so far as there is a between our ideas and the reality of things."
"I shall only observe that if at table all who were present should see, and smell, and taste, and drink wine, and find the effects of it, with me there could be no doubt of its reality; so that at bottom the scruple concerning real miracles has no place at all on ours, but only on the received principles, and consequently makes rather for than against what has been said."
"A dog naturally loves a man above his own species, and very commonly meets with a return of affection."
"Do I not acknowledge a twofold state of things the one ectypal or natural, the other archetypal and eternal?"
"There is no spectacle so fair and beautiful as a noble and generous action; nor any which gives us more abhorrence than one that is cruel and treacherous."
"provided all the parts continue uninterruptedly and invariably the same, whatever motion or change of place we may observe either in the whole or in any of the parts."
"There is another use of the word wherein it is which, though it be in itself a very improper way of speaking, yet common use has so authorized it, that it would be folly either to oppose or hope to remedy it."
"And hence we see that, in the interpretation of laws, whether divine or human, there is no end; comments beget comments, and explications make new matter for explications; and of limiting, distinguishing, varying the signification of these moral words there is no end."
"Hence a great number of dark and ambiguous terms, presumed to stand for abstract notions, have been introduced into metaphysics and morality, and from these have grown infinite distractions and disputes amongst the learned."
"Some Propositions bring no Increase to our Knowledge."
"But yet, so far as the other parts of the legislative any way contribute to any attempt upon the government, and do either promote, or not, what lies in them, hinder such designs, they are guilty, and partake in this, which is certainly the greatest crime which men can partake of one towards another."
"Why have all men, I ask, in all ages, complained incessantly of the miseries of life?."
"But, which is worse, this argument of universal consent, which is made use of to prove innate principles, seems to me a demonstration that there are none such: because there are none to which all mankind give an universal assent."
"This I cannot comprehend: to me a die seems to be nothing distinct from those things which are termed its modes or accidents."
"These are not at that open defiance with their senses, with the former: they can endure to hearken to their information a little more patiently; but will by no means admit of their reports in the explanation of things; nor be prevailed on by probabilities, which would convince them that things are not brought about just after the same manner that they have decreed within themselves that they are."
"This habit or determination to transfer the past to the future is full and perfect; and consequently the first impulse of the imagination in this species of reasoning is endowed with the same qualities."
"But it is evident, in the first place, that the repetition of like objects in like relations of succession and contiguity discovers nothing new in any one of them: since we can draw no inference from it, nor make it a subject either of our demonstrative or probable reasonings;"
"Since, therefore, the imagination can represent all the same objects that the memory can offer to us, and since those faculties are only distinguished by the different feeling of the ideas they present, it may be proper to consider what is the nature of that feeling."
"To conclude: general propositions, of what kind soever, are then only capable of certainty, when the terms used in them stand for such ideas, whose agreement or disagreement, as there expressed, is capable to be discovered by us."
"Thus, from the consideration of ourselves, and what we infallibly find in our own constitutions, our reason leads us to the knowledge of this certain and evident truth, which whether any one will please to call God, it matters not."
"And if men would tell what ideas they make their words stand for, there could not be half that obscurity or wrangling in the search or support of truth that there is."
"The difficulty of explaining this distinction arises from the principle above explained, that all ideas, which are different, are separable."
"scruple not to allow, said that I have been apt to suspect the frequent repetition of the word infinite, which we meet with in all theological writers, to savour more of panegyric than of philosophy; and that any purposes of reasoning, and even of religion, would be better served,"
"A prince, who imposes a tax upon his subjects, expects their compliance."
"I shall not therefore be surprised"
"Not to lose any time in circumlocutions, said addressing himself to much less in replying to the pious declamations of I shall briefly explain how I conceive this matter."
"That there is a great and conspicuous use in these regular constant methods of working observed by the Supreme Agent has been shown in sect."
"Why Men more easily admit infinite Duration than infinite Expansion."
"That the principles laid down by mathematicians are true, and their way of deduction from those principles clear and incontestible, we do not deny; but, we hold there may be certain erroneous maxims of greater extent than the object of Mathematics, and for that reason not expressly mentioned, though tacitly supposed throughout the whole progress of that science; and that the ill effects of those secret unexamined errors are diffused through all the branches thereof."
"And of this we shall be farther satisfyed, if we consider, that riches represent the goods of life, only by means of the will; which employs them; and therefore imply in their very nature an idea of the person, and cannot be considered without a kind of sympathy with his sensations and enjoyments."
"And will any man tell me with a serious countenance, that an orderly universe must arise from some thought and art like the human, because we have experience of it?"
"proceed and suppose a duration exceeding as many such periods as I can reckon, let me add whilst I will, which I think is the notion we have of eternity; of whose infinity we have no other notion than we have of the infinity of number, to which we can add for ever without end."
"By society all his infirmities are compensated; and though in that situation his wants multiply every moment upon him, yet his abilities are still more augmented, and leave him in every respect more satisfied and happy, than it is possible for him, in his savage and solitary condition, ever to become."
"The new volition has for object a new obligation, and consequently new relations, and consequently a new volition; which volition again has in view a new obligation, relation and volition, without any termination."
"Nay, we find, that all moralists, whose judgment is not perverted by a strict adherence to a system, enter into the same way of thinking; and that the antient moralists in particular made no scruple of placing prudence at the head of the cardinal virtues."
"A child is free by his father's title, by his father's understanding, which is to govern him till he hath it of his own."
"The first power, viz."
"that 'It is impossible for the same thing to be and not to be.'"
"But I shall not enter into the detail of them in this place, as well because I think arguments A are unnecessary for confirming what has been, if I mistake not, sufficiently demonstrated A as because I shall hereafter find occasion to speak somewhat of them."
"This is certain, that what in one age was affirmed upon slight grounds, can never after come to be more valid in future ages by being often repeated."
"On the contrary, I know that nothing inconsistent can exist, and that the existence of Matter implies an inconsistency."
"And if our dreamer pleases to try whether the glowing heat of a glass furnace be barely a wandering imagination in a drowsy man's fancy, by putting his hand into it, he may perhaps be wakened into a certainty greater than he could wish, that it is something more than bare imagination."
"For the present, I have no inclination to the answering part."
"As if the only business of a king had been to lead out their armies, and fight in their defence; and accordingly at his inauguration pouring a vial of oil upon him, declares to Saul, that the Lord had anointed him to be captain over his inheritance,."
"the one not to be the other: and this it does without pains, labour, or deduction; but at first view, by its natural power of perception and distinction."
"To which we may add, that a man living under an absolute government, would owe it no allegiance; since, by its very nature, it depends not on consent."
"Suppositions that look strange are pardonable in our ignorance."
"But my present purpose being only to inquire into the knowledge the mind has of things, by those ideas and appearances which God has fitted it to receive from them, and how the mind comes by that knowledge; rather than into their causes or manner of Production, I shall not, contrary to the design of this Essay, see myself to inquire philosophically into the peculiar constitution of and the configuration of parts, whereby have the power to produce in us the ideas of their sensible qualities."
"That opinion must be entirely owing to the which must now be the subject of our enquiry."
"For, its greatness being no more than what shall be really tasted when enjoyed, men are apt enough to lessen that; to make it give place to any present desire; and conclude with themselves that, when it comes to trial, it may possibly not answer the report or opinion that generally passes of it: they having often found that, not only what others have magnified, but even what they themselves have enjoyed with great pleasure and delight at one time, has proved insipid or nauseous at another; and therefore they see nothing in it for which they should forego a present enjoyment."
"A very small part of this great system, during a very short time, is very imperfectly discovered to us; and do we thence pronounce decisively concerning the origin of the whole?"
"For, since the reasoning faculties of the soul, which are almost constantly, though not always warily nor wisely employed, would not know how to move, for want of a foundation and footing, in most men, who through laziness or avocation do not, or for want of time, or true helps, or for other causes, cannot penetrate into the principles of knowledge, and trace truth to its fountain and original, it is natural for them, and almost unavoidable, to take up with some borrowed principles; which being reputed and presumed to be the evident proofs of other things, are thought not to need any other proof themselves."
"For from thence we may immediately conclude, that since all impressions are clear and precise, the ideas, which are copyed from them, must be of the same nature, and can never, but from our fault, contain any thing so dark and intricate."
"Reason can never shew us the connexion of one object with another, though aided by experience, and the observation of their constant conjunction in all past instances."
"ubi tu pulsas, ego vapulo tantum."
"It may indeed happen, that after he has, in this manner, engraved the religious opinions deep into his thought and imagination, there may arrive a change of health or circumstances, which may restore his good humour, and raising cheerful prospects of futurity, make him run into the other extreme of joy and triumph."
", it being a very simple act, whosoever desires to understand what it is, will better find it by reflecting on his own mind, and observing what it does when it wills, than by any variety of articulate sounds whatsoever."
"Or, suppose a house, whose walls or outward shell remaining unaltered, the chambers are all pulled down, and new ones built in their place; and that you should call this the"
"Which would be so also in mathematical figures, if we were to have our complex ideas of them, only by collecting their properties in reference to other figures."
"By which it is plain, that every step in reasoning that produces knowledge, has intuitive certainty; which when the mind perceives, there is no more required but to remember it, to make the agreement or disagreement of the ideas concerning which we inquire visible and certain."
"But do not the most plausible of them depend on the supposition that a body is denominated the same, with regard not to the form or that which is perceived by sense, but the material substance, which remains the same under several forms?"
"The reason why the one are ordinarily taken for real qualities, and the other only for bare powers, seems to be because the ideas we have of distinct colours, sounds, andc."
"But as the translation of property from one person to another is a more remarkable event, the defect of our ideas becomes more sensible on that occasion, and obliges us to turn ourselves on every side in search of some remedy."
"I confess myself to have one of those dull souls, that doth not perceive itself always to contemplate ideas; nor can conceive it any more necessary for the soul always to think, than for the body always to move"
"You indeed, who by and fire mean certain external, unperceived, unperceiving substances, are in the right to deny whiteness or heat to be affections inherent in."
"For, if I have a clear idea of sweetness, light, or extension, I have, too, of equal, or more, or less, of each of these: if I know what it is for one man to be born of a woman, viz."
"This exact rencounter depends upon the relations of those ideas, from which they are derived, and is more or less perfect, according to the degrees of the relation."
"The principles of union among ideas, I have reduced to three general ones, and have asserted, that the idea or impression of any object naturally introduces the idea of any other object, that is resembling, contiguous to, or connected with it."
"And since these relations can entirely convert an idea into an impression, and convey the vivacity of the latter into the former, so perfectly as to lose nothing of it in the transition, we may easily conceive how the relation of cause and effect alone, may serve to strengthen and inliven an idea."
"Thus, though the killing of an old man be as fit in nature to be united into one complex idea, as the killing a man's father; yet, there being no name standing precisely for the one, as there is the name of to mark the other, it is not taken for a particular complex idea, nor a distinct species of actions from that of killing a young man, or any other man."
"They are in a continual change."
"He that will not set himself proudly at the top of all things, but will consider the immensity of this fabric, and the great variety that is to be found in this little and inconsiderable part of it which he has to do with, may be apt to think that, in other mansions of it, there may be other and different intelligent beings, of whose faculties he has as little knowledge or apprehension as a worm shut up in one drawer of a cabinet hath of the senses or understanding of a man; such variety and excellency being suitable to the wisdom and power of the Maker."
"This may not only happen with regard to supreme power; but it is possible, even in some constitutions, where the legislative authority is not lodged in one person, that there may be a magistrate so eminent and powerful, as to oblige the laws to keep silence in this particular."
"Actions are by their very nature temporary and perishing; and where they proceed not from some cause in the characters and disposition of the person, who performed them, they infix not themselves upon him, and can neither redound to his honour, if good, nor infamy,"
"It remains only to be considered, whether promises extorted by force, without right, can be thought consent, and how far they bind."
"The Identity of Man."
"What the word or andc."
"You are always teasing me for reasons of my belief."
"It is true, that whatever engagements or promises any one has made for himself, he is under the obligation of them, but cannot, by any compact whatsoever, bind his children or posterity: for his son, when a man, being altogether as free as the father, any act of the father can no more give away the liberty of the son, than it can of any body else: he may indeed annex such conditions to the land, he enjoyed as a subject of any commonwealth, as may oblige his son to be of that community, if he will enjoy those possessions which were his father's; because that estate being his father's property, he may dispose, or settle it, as he pleases."
"But this action of the mind, which is so familiar to every thinking and reasoning man, is easier to be conceived by reflecting on what passes in us when we affirm or deny, than to be explained by words."
"whether any liquor passed through the filaments of the nerves."
"The arguments are in this case so obvious, that they never escape the most stupid and ignorant."
"Another abuse of words is,."
"But that I may not be accused to argue from the thoughts of infants, which are unknown to us, and to conclude from what passes in their understandings before they express it; I say next, that these two general propositions are not the truths that first possess the minds of children, nor are antecedent to all acquired and adventitious notions: which, if they were innate, they must needs be."
"And were not he that proposed it bound to make out the truth and reasonableness of it to him?"
"Necessity, hunger, want, stimulate the strong and courageous: Fear, anxiety, terror, agitate the weak and infirm."
"But conquest is as far from setting up any government, as demolishing an house is from building a new one in the place."
"By this observation we reject at once all the vulgar definitions, which philosophers have given of power and efficacy; and instead of searching for the idea in these definitions, must look for it in the impressions, from which it is originally derived."
"immaterial one, whatever difficulties some would raise against it."
"But I desire it may be considered, how difficult it is to lead another by words into the thoughts of things, stripped of those specifical differences we give them:"
"And they must needs have a penetrating sight who can certainly see that I think, when I cannot perceive it myself, and when I declare that I do not; and yet can see that dogs or elephants do not think, when they give all the demonstration of it imaginable, except only telling us that they do so."
"To which if we add the variety of opinions, and contrariety of interests, which unavoidably happen in all collections of men, the coming into society upon such terms would be only like Cato's coming into the theatre, only to go out again."
"I do not think a philosopher, who would apply himself so earnestly to the explaining the ultimate principles of the soul, would show himself a great master in that very science of human nature, which he pretends to explain, or very knowing in what is naturally satisfactory to the mind of man."
"The relation takes place wherever the persons become contiguous; which is a general reason why we are uneasy at seeing such disproportioned objects, as a rich man and a poor one, a nobleman and a porter, in that situation."
"I own, indeed, that those who pretend to the faculty of framing abstract general ideas do talk as if they had"
"Habitual Knowledge is of two degrees."
", makes that complex idea, whereby we represent to ourselves, the best we can, the Supreme Being."
"In the mean time it may be affirmed in general, that all the merit a man may derive from his conversation (which, no doubt, may be very considerable) arises from nothing but the pleasure it conveys to those who are present."
"One example of this is to be found in the Scotch Annals."
"is founded on one of these two suppositions, which are both false."
"Thus drunkenness, or lying, signify such or such a collection of simple ideas, which I call mixed modes: and in this sense they are as much ideas, as the drinking of a horse, or speaking of a parrot."
"but what they have clear and distinct ideas of: which is not to be expected by any one who hath not vanity enough to imagine he can prevail with men to be very knowing or very silent."
"The cause of the former is generation or vegetation."
"Do you not in a dream too perceive those or the like objects?"
"In order to answer this question, we must distinguish betwixt personal identity, as it regards our thought or imagination, and as it regards our passions or the concern we take in ourselves."
"As nature has given to the body certain appetites and inclinations, which she encreases, diminishes, or changes according to the situation of the fluids or solids; she has proceeded in the same manner with the mind."
"we cannot conceive capable of them, as well as in a subject"
"To except any one in particular must appear highly unreasonable."
"And thus the most abstract speculations concerning human nature, however cold and unentertaining, become subservient to practical morality; and may render this latter science more correct in its precepts, and more persuasive in its exhortations."
"If we consider the ordinary course of human actions, we shall find, that the mind restrains not itself by any general and universal rules; but acts on most occasions as it is determined by its present motives and inclination."
"And thus much for the relation of human actions to a law, which, therefore, I call."
"Or at least to be thought false."
"Faith and Justice not owned as Principles by all Men."
"I have already observed, in a cursory manner, the fallacy of this opinion, and shall here continue to open up a little more distinctly my sentiments on that subject."
"Virtue is the best worship of God,' ie is most acceptable to him; which, if virtue be taken, as most commonly it is, for those actions which, according to the different opinions of several countries, are accounted laudable, will be a proposition so far from being certain, that it will not be true."
"These admit of infinite resemblances upon the general appearance and comparison, without having any common circumstance the same."
"And who, I pray, is it that makes these diverse species, even under one and the same name, but men that make two different abstract ideas, consisting not exactly of the same collection of qualities?"
"The Difference of Wit and Judgment."
"And therefore, conformable to this, the apostle tells us, that, at the great day, when every one shall 'receive according to his doings, the secrets of all hearts shall be laid open.'"
"But the proud never can endure the proud, and rather seek the company of those who are of an opposite disposition."
"why will he give up this empire, and subject himself to thedominion and controul of any other power?"
"Thirdly, A certain figure inscribed on each side."
"And surely it is a work"
"But then this, First, excludes universality of consent in anything but the name; for those wise men being very few, perhaps one of a thousand, this universality is very narrow."
"None of these are essential to the one or the other, or to any individual whatever, till the mind refers it to some sort or species of things; and then presently, according to the abstract idea of that sort, something is found essential."
"This being our idea of matter, we no more conceive or speak of different in the world than we do of different solidities; though we both conceive and speak of different bodies, because extension and figure are capable of variation."
"And I hope you will make no difficulty to acknowledge the same of."
"Nothing but this, that the moral qualities of man are more defective in their kind than his natural abilities."
"Active and passive power, in motions and in thinking."
"So far from perceiving the connexion betwixt an act of volition, and a motion of the body; it is allowed that no effect is more inexplicable from the powers and essence of thought and matter."
"A certain degree of poverty produces contempt; but a degree beyond causes compassion and good will."
"This is what I repeat and inculcate, and earnestly recommend to the attentive thoughts of the reader."
"Though thinking, in the propriety of the English tongue, signifies that sort of operation in the mind about its ideas, wherein the mind is active; where it, with some degree of voluntary attention, considers anything."
"diminish in proportion to the distance; there is but little difference observed, whether this distance be marled out by compounded and sensible objects, or be known only by the manner, in which the distant objects affect the senses."
"there remains yet another more general, though perhaps less observed, abuse of words; and that is, that men having by a long and familiar use annexed to them certain ideas, they are apt to imagine A, that they forwardly suppose one cannot but understand what their meaning is; and therefore one ought to acquiesce in the words delivered, as if it were past doubt that, in the use of those common received sounds, the speaker and hearer had necessarily the same precise ideas."
"beyond which the mind, whatever efforts it would make, is not able to advance one jot; nor can it make any discoveries, when it would pry into the nature and hidden causes of those ideas."
"Moral Rules need a Proof, not innate."
"Besides this desire of ease from pain, there is another of absent positive good; and here also the desire and uneasiness are equal."
"The straining of the imagination always hinders the regular flowing of the passions and sentiments."
"Secondly, Want of a discoverable connexion between the ideas we have."
"For such is the unsteadiness and activity of thought, that the images of every thing, especially of goods and evils, are always wandering in the mind; and were it moved by every idle conception of this kind"
"The only point of view, in which our sentiments concur with those of others, is, when we consider the tendency of any passion to the advantage or harm of those, who have any immediate connexion or intercourse with the person possessed of it."
"How contemptible or odious to the spectator!"
"To this it may be replied that whatever is useful in geometry, and promotes the benefit of human life, does still remain firm and unshaken on our principles; that science considered as practical will rather receive advantage than any prejudice from what has been said."
"This decision is very commodious; because it reduces us to this simple question, Why any action or sentiment upon the general view or survey, gives a certain satisfaction or uneasiness, in order to shew the origin of its moral rectitude or depravity, without looking for any incomprehensible relations and qualities, which never did exist in nature, nor even in our imagination, by any clear and distinct conception."
"This is just what is happening to me now; for I am reminded of Plato who, we are told, was the first to make a practice of holding discussions here."
"That innovations in government and religion are dangerous, and ought to be discountenanced, I freely own."
"The bare mention of this is sufficient."
"It is natural to think that at first, men, for ease of memory and help of computation, made use of counters, or in writing of single strokes, points, or the like, each whereof was made to signify an unit,.e."
"Now, though this latter may not exist without the mind, yet it will not thence follow that the former cannot."
"And, after the concessions already made, I had as well grant"
"whether substance or mode, which did not before exist, hath thereby in our minds the relation of a cause, and so is denominated by us."
"The Reformers embraced the same principles of reasoning, or rather declamation; and all panegyrics on the excellency of faith, were sure to be interlarded with some severe strokes of satire against natural reason."
"This being usually brought about by such in the commonwealth who misuse the power they have; it is hard to consider it aright, and know at whose door to lay it, without knowing the form of government in which it happens."
"It may be said that absent good may, by contemplation, be brought home to the mind and made present."
"Whatever then we talk of innate, either speculative or practical, principles, it may with as much probability be said, that a man hath pounds sterling in his pocket, and yet denied that he hath there either penny, shilling, crown, or other coin out of which the sum is to be made up; as to think that certain are innate when the about which they are can by no means be supposed to be so."
"That a thing should be really perceived by my senses, and at the same time not really exist, is to me a plain contradiction; since I cannot prescind or abstract, even in thought, the existence of a sensible thing from its being perceived."
"But there is no medium better than that obvious one, that possession and property should always be stable, except when the proprietor consents to bestow them on some other person."
"Now that there is a greater firmness and solidity in the conceptions, which are the objects of conviction and assurance, than in the loose and indolent reveries of a castle builder, every one will readily own."
"For, as to substances, when concerned in moral discourses, their divers natures are not so much inquired into as supposed:.g."
"A resolution is the natural act of the mind, which promises express: But were there no more than a resolution in the case, promises would only declare our former motives, and would not create any new motive or obligation."
"What must we think of houses, rivers, mountains, trees, stones; nay, even of our own bodies?"
"In this case, it is plain the will and desire run counter."
"If it always thinks, and so had ideas before it was united, or before it received any from the body, it is not to be supposed but that during sleep it recollects its native ideas; and during that retirement from communicating with the body, whilst it thinks by itself, the ideas it is busied about should be, sometimes at least, those more natural and congenial ones which it had in itself, underived from the body, or its own operations about them: which, since the waking man never remembers, we must from this hypothesis conclude either that the soul remembers something that the man does not; or else that memory belongs only to such ideas as are derived from the body, or the mind's operations about them."
"But though this conclusion from the coherence of appearances may seem to be of the same nature with our reasonings concerning causes and effects; as being derived from custom, and regulated by past experience; we shall find upon examination, that they are at the bottom considerably different from each other, and that this inference arises from the understanding, and from custom in an indirect and oblique manner."
"Besides what we have already mentioned concerning ideas, other considerations belong to them, in reference to or and thus, I think, they may come under a threefold distinction, and are: First, either real or fantastical;"
"But observe, I entreat you, with what extreme caution all just reasoners proceed in the transferring of experiments to similar cases."
"What remains can only be a dispute of words."
"Hark; is not this the college bell?"
"What would you have?"
"This method of the Schools, which have been thought the fountains of knowledge, introduced, as I suppose, the like use of these maxims into a great part of conversation out of the Schools, to stop the mouths of cavillers, whom any one is excused from arguing any longer with, when they deny these general self evident principles received by all reasonable men who have once thought of them:"
"The interest of a nation requires, that the succession to the crown should be fixed one way or other; but it is the same thing to its interest in what way it be fixed: So that if the relation of blood had not an effect independent of public interest, it would never have been regarded, without a positive law; and it would have been impossible, that so many positive laws of different nations coued ever have concured precisely in the same views and intentions."
"That kind of distinction is founded on the different resemblances, which the same simple idea may have to several different ideas."
"But is something more; and that is the affirming or denying of words one of another, as the ideas they stand for agree or disagree: and this again is two fold; either purely verbal and trifling, which I shall speak of, (chap."
"The smallness of the probability is compensated by the greatness of the evil; and the sensation is equally lively, as if the evil were more probable."
"It is by society alone he is able to supply his defects, and raise himself up to an equality with his fellow creatures, and even acquire a superiority above them."
"The ideas of sight and touch make two species entirely distinct and heterogeneous."
"Instances of this kind are so plentiful everywhere, that if I add one more, it is only for the pleasant oddness of it."
"Because change of customs and opinions bringing with it new combinations of ideas, which it is necessary frequently to think on and talk about, new names, to avoid long descriptions, are annexed to them; and so they become new species of complex modes."
"One cannot transfer the property of a particular house, twenty leagues distant; because the consent cannot be attended with delivery, which is a requisite circumstance."
"And thus, I think, it is very easy to conceive, without any difficulty, how labour could at first begin a title of property in the common things of nature, and how the spending it upon our uses bounded it."
"rises to torture and agony; and the longer it continues, it becomes still more genuine agony and torture."
"In the very notion or definition of there is included a manifest repugnance and inconsistency."
"With this design, therefore, I shall go on with what I have further to say concerning this matter."
"And therefore this cannot be but a very uncertain rule of human practice, and serve but very little to the conduct of our lives, and is therefore very unfit to be assigned as an innate practical principle."
"when that idea is said to be in it: by when applied to a complex idea, I mean such an one as consists of a determinate number of certain simple or less complex ideas, joined in such a proportion and situation as the mind has before its view, and sees in itself, when that idea is present in it, or should be present in it, when a man gives a name to it."
"The one idea is easily converted into its correlative; and the one impression into that, which resembles and corresponds to it: With how much greater facility must this transition be made, where these movements mutually assist each other, and the mind receives a double impulse from the relations both of its impressions and ideas?"
"For, I beseech you, by what rule or standard"
"As to what may be said, that the operations of nature are independent of our thought and reasoning, I allow it; and accordingly have observed, that objects bear to each other the relations of contiguity and succession: that like objects may be observed in several instances to have like relations; and that all this is independent of, and antecedent to the operations of the understanding."
"This error consists in the vulgar division of the acts of the understanding, into and and in the definitions we give of them."
"The idea of space is conveyed to the mind by two senses, the sight and touch; nor does anything ever appear extended, that is not either visible or tangible."
"It is impossible, therefore, that anything should determine the sorts of things, which rank under general names, but that idea which that name is designed as a mark for; which is that, as has been shown, which we call nominal essence."
"But however we may express ourselves, we must always confess, that we have no idea of any real extension without filling it with sensible objects, and conceiving its parts as visible or tangible."
"But in the main, we may affirm, that man in general, or human nature, is nothing but the object both of love and hatred, and requires some other cause, which by a double relation of impressions and ideas, may excite these passions."
"Your curiosity, you then told me, was so excited, that I must, of necessity, enter into a more exact detail of their reasonings, and display those various systems which they advanced with regard to so delicate a subject as that of natural religion."
"In short, nature seems to have formed an exact calculation of the necessities of her creatures; and, like a rigid master, has afforded them little more powers or endowments than what are strictly sufficient to supply those necessities."
"Explain me this if you can: and I shall then be able to answer all those queries you formerly put to me about my."
"For what if he be my enemy, and has given me just cause to hate him?"
", might no doubt have said, 'Oyster in right hand is subject, and oyster in left hand is predicate:' and so might have made a self evident proposition of oyster, ie oyster is oyster; and yet, with all this, not have been one whit"
"A barren or desolate country always seems ugly and disagreeable, and commonly inspires us with contempt for the inhabitants."
"Two primary qualities or properties of body, viz."
"Continuance of that which we have made to be our complex idea of man makes the same man."
"In vain should we expect to find, in uncultivated nature, a remedy to this inconvenience; or hope for any inartificial principle of the human mind, which might controul those partial affections, and make us overcome the temptations arising from our circumstances."
"When it goes beyond its just bounds, it loses the first advantage, and even becomes prejudicial; which is the reason why we condemn an extravagant pride and ambition, however regulated by the decorums of good breeding and politeness."
"The property of rivers, by the laws of most nations, and by the natural turn of our thought, Is attributed to the proprietors of their banks, excepting such vast rivers as the Rhine or the Danube, which seem too large to the imagination to follow as an accession the property of the neighbouring fields."
"how it is possible there should be room for all those trees and houses to exist in your mind."
"If any one, therefore, should imagine that the foregoing arguments are any ways dangerous to religion, I hope the following apology will remove his apprehensions."
"Or if he rather chuses, that this question should be decided by fair arguments before philosophers, than by declamations before the people, let him return to what I have advanced to prove that liberty and chance are synonimous; and concerning the nature of moral evidence and the regularity of human actions."
"Nor is it only proper we should in general indulge our inclination in the most elaborate philosophical researches, notwithstanding our sceptical principles, but also that we should yield to that propensity, which inclines us to be positive and certain in particular points, according to the light, in which we survey them in any particular instant."
"But supposing those other interests to be as general and avowed as the interest in the performance of a promise, they will be regarded as on the same footing, and men will begin to repose the same confidence in them."
"What and how various they are, will be superfluous here to take notice; the books of rhetoric which abound in the world, will instruct those who want to be informed: only I cannot but observe how little the preservation and improvement of truth and knowledge is the care and concern of mankind; since the arts of fallacy are endowed and preferred."
"This I have assigned for the reason, why, after considering several loose standards of equality, and correcting them by each other, we proceed to imagine so correct and exact a standard of that relation, as is not liable to the least error or variation."
"that they govern our thoughts as absolutely, and influence all our actions as fully, as the most evident demonstration; and in what concerns us we make little or no difference between them and certain knowledge."
"First, as they are in themselves, each made up of such a collection of simple ideas."
"which is the cause of our rejecting it."
", would we consider the shortness of that period, wherein these questions have been the subjects of enquiry and reasoning."
"It is felt, rather than conceived, and approaches the impression, from which it is derived, in its force and influence."
"Those ideas that consist not of parts cannot be augmented to what proportion men please, or be stretched beyond what they have received by their senses; but space, duration, and number, being capable of increase by repetition, leave in the mind an idea of endless room for more; nor can we conceive anywhere a stop to a further addition or progression: and so those ideas lead our minds towards the thought of infinity."
"I mean the opposite impression."
"To say nothing of the numberless disputes about its extent, continuity, homogeneity, gravity, divisibility, andc."
"Whereby it is evident that they are further removed from a title to be innate; and the doubt of their being native impressions on the mind is stronger against those moral principles than the other."
"For as death lies between the eye and the prospect of futurity, that event is so shocking to Nature, that it must throw a gloom on all the regions which lie beyond it; and suggest to the generality of mankind the idea of and devils, and torrents of fire and brimstone."
"First, call such complex ideas which, however compounded, contain not in them the supposition of subsisting by themselves, but are considered as dependences on, or affections of substances; such as are the ideas signified by the words triangle, gratitude, murder, andc."
"Nature has, therefore, chosen a medium, and has neither bestowed on every idea of good and evil the power of actuating the will, nor yet has entirely excluded them from this influence."
"The two impulses concur with each other, and render the whole transition more smooth and easy."
"that the mind can no more doubt of, as soon as it understands the words, than it does of that axiom, 'it is impossible for the same thing to be and not to be?'"
"An inference concerning a matter of fact is nothing but the idea of an object, that is frequently conjoined, or is associated with a present impression."
"Now as all objects, which are not contrary, are susceptible of a constant conjunction, and as no real objects are contrary Part Sect."
", I think few people need go far from home to be convinced."
"Without any other alteration, beside that of the feeling, they become immediately ideas of the memory, and are assented to."
"By this means we shall fully understand the origin of pride and humility."
"Human actions, when with their various ends, objects, manners, and circumstances, they are framed into distinct complex ideas, are, as has been shown,"
"But it is none of my business to plead for novelties and paradoxes."
"The booksellers preparing for the Fourth Edition of my Essay, gave me notice of it, that I might, if I had leisure, make any additions or alterations I should think fit."
"Hence, as it is impossible for me to see or feel anything without an actual sensation of that thing, so is it impossible for me to conceive in my thoughts any sensible thing or object distinct from the sensation or perception of it."
"In this case all these ideas of colours which, when out of view, can be revived with a consciousness of a former acquaintance, being thus in the memory, are said to be in the mind."
"To begin with the advantages of the body; we may observe a phaenomenon, which might appear somewhat trivial and ludicrous, if any thing coued be trivial, which fortified a conclusion of such importance, or ludicrous, which was employed in a philosophical reasoning."
"This assertion is founded on the motion we observe in bodies, which, it is maintained, would be impossible and inconceivable without a vacuum, into which one body must move in order to make way for another."
"Thus, should any one say that parsimony is frugality, that gratitude is justice, that this or that action is or is not temperate: however specious these and the like propositions may at first sight seem, yet when we come to press them, and examine nicely what they contain, we shall find that it all amounts to nothing but the signification of those terms."
"For matter of faith being only divine revelation, and nothing else, faith, as we use the word, (called commonly, has to do with no propositions, but those which are supposed to be divinely revealed."
"Thus in whatever light we consider this subject, we may still observe, that die causes of pride and humility correspond exactly to our hypothesis, and that nothing can excite either of these passions, unless it be both related to ourselves, and produces a pleasure or pain independent of the passion."
"It must depend upon durable principles of the mind, which extend over the whole conduct, and enter into the personal character."
"or no, it refers always to something that existed such a time in such a place, which it was certain, at that instant, was the same with itself, and no other."
"But this knowledge also reaches no further than our senses have formerly assured us."
"This comparison we may make, either when both the objects are present to the senses, or when neither of them is present, or when only one."
"That is to say, they are extension in general, and motion in general."
"But the objects perceived by sense are allowed to be nothing but combinations of those qualities, and consequently cannot subsist by themselves."
"Rather, in circumstances of this sort the grain does not become common property, any more than a herd of cattle is regarded as common property, If Titius beasts should have become mixed up with yours."
"Since, therefore, matter is confessed by philosophers to operate by an unknown force, we should in vain hope to attain an idea of force by consulting our own minds."
"By your own confession, therefore, nothing is new, or begins to be, in respect of the mind of God."
"Distribution of subjects to be treated of."
"The difference is exceeding great between some men and some animals: but if we will compare the understanding and abilities of some men and some brutes, we shall find so little difference, that it will be hard to say, that that of the man is either clearer or larger."
"yet, when ambition and luxury in future ages would retain and increase the power, without doing the business for which it was given; and aided by flattery, taught princes to have distinct and separate interests from their people, men found it necessary to examine more carefully the original and rights of government; and to find out ways to restrain the exorbitances, and prevent the abuses of that power, which they having intrusted in another's hands only for their own good, they found was made use of to hurt them."
"But there may arise some difficulty with regard to our ideas and objects."
"Upon which the people unanimously rejected the project."
"the wiser or more knowing: and that way of handling the matter would much at one have satisfied the monkey's hunger, or a man's understanding, and they would have improved in knowledge and bulk together."
"In like manner, a good office is agreeable, chiefly because it flatters our vanity, and is a proof of the kindness and esteem of the person, who performs it."
"We can never know what is the precise number of properties depending on the real essence of gold, any one of which failing, the real essence of gold, and consequently gold, would not be there, unless we knew the real essence of gold itself, and by that determined that species."
"I think I may be positive in the point."
"We rejoice in their pleasures, and grieve for their sorrows, merely from the force of sympathy."
"Who could imagine, replied that the calm philosophical would attempt to refute his antagonists by affixing a nickname to them; and, like the common bigots and inquisitors of the age, have recourse to invective and declamation, instead of reasoning?"
"that would be to make a volume."
"But as the production of all the ideas, to which the name may be applied, is in most eases impossible, we abridge that work by a more partial consideration, and find but few inconveniences to arise in our reasoning from that abridgment."
"When I tell you Matter is an I do not mean altogether nothing."
"Wrong connexion of ideas a great Cause of Errors."
"even under the appearance of its contrary; and as relation is frequently experienced to have no effect; which upon examination is found to proceed from some particular circumstance, that prevents the transition; so even in instances, where that circumstance, though present, prevents not the transition, it is found to arise from some other circumstance, which counter balances it."
"And Abimelech particularly is called king, though at most he was but their general."
"Thus far the matter goes easy enough."
"Of irresistible efficacy."
"Both which may justly be thought pernicious and absurd notions."
"; since that combination does not always exist together in nature?"
"But if you cannot, it will be unreasonable on your side to insist any longer upon what you have no notion of."
"Cohesion of solid Parts in Body as hard to be conceived as thinking in a Soul."
"Many principles of mechanics are founded on very abstruse reasoning; yet no man who has any pretensions to science, even no speculative sceptic, pretends to entertain the least doubt with regard to them."
"In the infinite chain or succession of causes and effects, each single effect is determined to exist by the power and efficacy of that cause which immediately preceded; but the whole eternal chain or succession, taken together, is not determined or caused by any thing; and yet it is evident that it requires a cause or reason, as much as any particular object which begins to exist in time."
"we cannot attain to any self evident or demonstrative knowledge of the existence of sensible things."
"But suppose, that this propensity arises from some other principle, besides that of relation; it is evident it must still have the same effect, and convey the vivacity from the impression to the idea."
"Was it a robbery thus to assume to himself what belonged to all in common?"
"Fourthly, Where the signification of the word and the real essence of the thing are not exactly the same."
"whereof they have not capacity, or will not be at the pains, to comprehend; but those who are masters of any justness and extent of thought, and are withal used to reflect, can never sufficiently admire the divine traces of Wisdom and Goodness that shine throughout the Economy of Nature."
"For one may fix his attention during Sometime on any one object without looking farther."
"Certain ideas in the mind of the speaker."
"For philosophy informs us, that every thing, which appears to the mind, is nothing but a perception, and is interrupted, and dependent on the mind:"
"Had we such ideas of substances as to know what real constitutions produce those sensible qualities we find in them, and how those qualities flowed from thence, we could, by the specific ideas of their real essences in our own minds, more certainly find out their properties, and discover what qualities they had or had not, than we can now by our senses: and to know the properties of gold, it would be no more necessary that gold should exist, and that we should make experiments upon it, than it is necessary for the knowing the properties of a triangle, that a triangle should exist in any matter, the idea in our minds would serve for the one as well as the other."
"But he that shall tell me, that in whatever thing sense, motion, reason, and laughter, were united, that thing had actually a notion of God, or would be cast into a sleep by opium, made indeed an instructive proposition:"
"This cannot be done by names applied to particular things;"
"I. Want of simple ideas that other creatures in other parts of the universe may have."
"For I have already shewn Sect."
"But the one is much inferior to the other, both in its causes and effects."
"To suppose that the species of things are anything but the sorting of them under general names, according as they agree to several abstract ideas of which we make those names signs, is to confound truth, and introduce uncertainty into all general propositions that can be made about them."
"Besides, the communicating of ideas marked by words is not the chief and only end of language, as is commonly supposed."
"But with respect to the passions the question is yet entire, and well worth the examining."
"The objects of sense exist only when they are perceived; the trees therefore are in the garden, or the chairs in the parlour, no longer than while there is somebody by to perceive them."
"This, we may conceive, would be no small advantage to the knowledge of a thinking man, if all his past thoughts and reasonings could be present to him."
"where I say, that the distance betwixt two bodies is known, among other things, by the angles, which the rays of light flowing from the bodies make with each other."
"It is acknowledged, on the received principles, that extension, motion, and in a word all sensible qualities have need of a support, as not being able to subsist by themselves."
"You may say, for example, that twice two is equal to seven, so long as you declare you do not take the words of that proposition in their usual acceptation but for marks of you know not what."
"An interrupted appearance to the senses implies not necessarily an interruption in the existence."
"Smelling furnishes me with odours; the palate with tastes; and hearing conveys sounds to the mind in all their variety of tone and composition."
"Either for that quality, by which two ideas are connected together in the imagination, and the one naturally introduces the other, after the manner above explained: or for that particular circumstance, in which, even upon the arbitrary union of two ideas in the fancy, we may think proper to compare them."
"In the following discourse natural is also opposed sometimes to civil, sometimes to moral."
"Are all these but so many chimeras and illusions on the fancy?"
"If they say, that they apply it to God, finite spirit, and matter, in three different significations and that it stands for one idea when God is said to be a substance; for another when the soul is called substance; and for a third when body is called so; if the name substance stands for three several distinct ideas, they would do well to make known those distinct ideas, or at least to give three distinct names to them, to prevent in so important"
"Others, seemingly the most prosperous, have not been ashamed to vent their complaints in the most melancholy strains."
"Thus the sceptic still continues to reason and believe, even though be asserts, that he cannot defend his reason by reason; and by the same rule he must assent to the principle concerning the existence of body, though he cannot pretend by any arguments of philosophy to maintain its veracity."
"An evil may be real."
"This accounts for the matter by means of accession; which is taking a needless circuit."
"If we could but see the secret motives that influenced the men of name and learning in the world, and the leaders of parties, we should not always find that it was the embracing of truth for its own sake,"
"And if a man had passed sixty years in such a state, as it is possible he might, as well as three days, I wonder what difference there would be, in any intellectual perfections, between him and the lowest degree of animals."
"But as the smooth passage of our thought along our resembling perceptions makes us ascribe to them an identity, we can never without reluctance yield up that opinion."
"The creation, therefore, I allow to have been a creation of things, of things."
"All Relations terminate in simple Ideas."
"Earthly minds, like mud walls, resist the strongest batteries: and though, perhaps, sometimes the force of a clear argument may make some impression, yet they nevertheless stand firm, and keep out the enemy, truth, that would captivate or disturb them."
"It is true, would we hearken to certain philosophers, they promise to diminish our ignorance; but I am afraid it is at the hazard of running us into contradictions, from which the subject is of itself exempted."
"And thus, by putting together the ideas of thinking, perceiving, liberty, and power of moving themselves and other things, we have as clear a perception and notion of immaterial substances as we have of material."
"Of the one we can form a particular and determinate idea: The other we conceive under the general notion of pleasure; and it is certain, that the more general and universal any of our ideas are, the less influence they have upon the imagination."
"First, They are to govern by promulgated established laws, not to be varied in particular cases, but to have one rule for rich and poor, for the favourite at court, and the country man at plough."
"Hence we naturally desire what is forbid, and take a pleasure in performing actions, merely because they are unlawful."
"The secondary Qualities of things not discovered by Demonstration."
"In doing of which, if I seem too prolix to those of quick apprehensions, I hope it may be pardoned, since all men do not equally apprehend things of this nature, and I am willing to be understood by every one."
"Probability is likeliness to be true, the very notation of the word signifying such a proposition, for which there be arguments or proofs to make it pass, or be received for true."
"There is no object, which implies the existence of any other if we consider these objects in themselves, and never look beyond the ideas which we form of them."
"Identity of modes and relations."
"But neither does he then readily assent because it is an innate truth, nor was his assent wanting till then because he wanted the use of reason; but the truth of it appears to him as soon as he has settled in his mind the clear and distinct ideas that these names stand for."
"And we see, that one who fixes his thoughts very intently on one thing, so as to take but little notice of the succession of ideas that pass in his mind whilst he is taken up with that earnest contemplation, lets slip out of his account a good part of that duration, and thinks that time shorter than it is."
"those wrong notions of essences or species having got root in most people's minds who have received any tincture from the learning which has prevailed in this part of the world, are to be discovered and removed, to make way for that use of words which should convey certainty with it."
"I have, therefore, though not an inactive idea, yet in some sort of an active thinking image of the Deity."
"that not only the most celebrated among the ancients, but even divers modern and Christian philosophers have thought Matter co eternal with the Deity."
"But yet even this too disturbs not the certainty of that knowledge, which is still to be had by a due contemplation and comparing of those even nick named ideas."
"Causes of confused Ideas."
"; which is an evident instance of that very principle, which I endeavour to explain."
"wherefore I conclude they are not contained in it."
"And if such foolish, such vicious creatures as man, can yet often unite in framing and executing one plan, how much more those deities or demons, whom we may suppose several degrees more perfect!"
"But lest this argument should not convince the reader; though in my opinion perfectly decisive; let him weigh the following reasoning, which is still closer and more immediate."
"The mind, as well as the body, seems to be endowed with a certain precise degree of force and activity, which it never employs in one action, but at the expense of all the rest."
"No figure that I know speaks any such language."
"But yet there seems to be a constant decay of all our ideas, even of those which are struck deepest, and in minds the most retentive; so that if they be not sometimes renewed, by repeated exercise of the senses, or reflection on those kinds of objects which at first occasioned them, the print wears out, and at last there remains nothing to be seen."
"Every thing in this world is judged of by comparison."
"I shall insist no longer on that point."
"The reason whereof is plain:"
"In the measuring of extension, there is nothing more required but the application of the standard or measure we make use of to the thing of whose extension we would be informed."
"What I can anything be more fantastical, more repugnant to Common Sense, or a more manifest piece of Scepticism, than to believe there is no such thing as Softly, good Hylas."
"The distant bodies are no more affected in the one case, than in the other."
"How then can a great heat exist in it, since you own it"
"Such precise, naked appearances in the mind, without considering how, whence, or with what others they came there, the understanding lays up (with names commonly annexed to them) as the standards to rank real existences into sorts, as they agree with these patterns, and to denominate them accordingly."
"To illustrate all this by a similar instance, I shall observe, that there cannot be two passions more nearly resembling each other, than those of hunting and philosophy, whatever disproportion may at first sight appear betwixt them."
"But the fault has been, that faculties have been spoken of and represented as so many distinct agents."
"For it is not enough, for the avoiding inconveniences in discourse and arguings about natural bodies and substantial things, to have learned, from the propriety of the language, the common, but confused, or very imperfect, idea to which each word is applied, and to keep them to that idea in our use of them; but we must, by acquainting ourselves with the history of that sort of things, rectify and settle our complex idea belonging to each specific name; and in discourse with others, (if we find them mistake us,) we ought to tell what the complex idea is that we make such a name stand for."
"This pleasure and this pain may arise from four different sources."
"Which in English runs thus:."
"But since a rational creature cannot be supposed, when free, to put himself into subjection to another, for his own harm; (though, where he finds a good and wise ruler, he may not perhaps think it either necessary or useful to set precise bounds to his power in all things) prerogative can be nothing but the people's permitting their rulers to do several things, of their own free choice, where the law was silent, and sometimes too against the direct letter of the law, for the public good; and their acquiescing in it"
"But yet, if after all this any one will be so sceptical as to distrust his senses, and to affirm that all we see and hear, feel and taste, think and do, during our whole being, is but the series and deluding appearances of a long dream, whereof there is no reality; and therefore will question the existence of all things, or our knowledge of anything: I must desire him to consider, that, if all be a dream, then he doth but dream that he makes the question, and so it is not much matter that a waking man should answer him."
"And in order to indulge ourselves in both these ways of considering our objects, we suppose all bodies to have at once a substance and a substantial form."
"In all other cases the sacredness of the person exempts him from all inconveniencies, whereby he is secure, whilst the government stands, from all violence and harm whatsoever; than which there cannot be a wiser constitution: for the harm he can do in his own person not being likely to happen often, nor to extend itself far; nor being able by his single strength to subvert the laws, nor oppress the body of the people, should any prince have so much weakness, and ill nature as to be willing to do it, the inconveniency of some particular mischiefs"
"That then which words are the marks of are the ideas of the speaker: nor can any one apply them as marks, immediately, to anything else but the ideas that he himself hath: for this would be to make them signs of his own conceptions, and yet apply them to other ideas; which would be to make them signs and not signs of his ideas at the same time; and so in effect to have no signification at all."
"For in that case the imagination is necessitated to consider the person, nor can it possibly confine its view to ourselves."
"Nor is this all; the same notion has been proved several ways, viewed in different lights, pursued in its consequences, and all objections against it cleared."
"All the perceptions of the mind are of two kinds, viz."
"In those viviparous animals which feed on grass, the conjunction between male and female lasts no longer than the very act of copulation; because the teat of the dam being sufficient to nourish the young, till it be able to feed on grass, the male only begets, but concerns not himself for the female or young, to whose sustenance he can contribute nothing."
"I see so many odd consequences following upon such a concession."
"Let us allow, that, if the goodness of the Deity"
"There are no phaenomena that point out any such kind affection to men, independent of their merit, and every other circumstance."
"I say, first, that a promise is not intelligible naturally, nor antecedent to human conventions; and that a man, unacquainted with society, could never enter into any engagements with another, even though they could perceive each other's thoughts by intuition."
"But I ask; Is there any more difficulty in supposing the time and place to be fixed without a cause, than to suppose the existence to be determined in that manner?"
"This, I am afraid, is to be sure without proofs, and to know without perceiving."
"The school were so sensible of the force of this argument, that some of them maintained, that nature has mixed among those particles of matter, which are divisible in infinitum, a number of mathematical points, in order to give a termination to bodies; and others eluded the force of this reasoning by a heap of unintelligible cavils and distinctions."
"For the same reason, that the year cannot concur with the present year every moment must be distinct from, and posterior or antecedent to another."
"Or, of that which is invisible, that any visible thing, or, in general of anything which is imperceptible, that a perceptible exists?"
"Wherever we have no successive perceptions, we have no notion of time, even though there be a real succession in the objects."
"For as this idea is not here considered, as the representation of any absent object, but as a real perception in the mind, of which we are intimately conscious, it must be able to bestow on whatever is related to it the same quality, call it firmness, or solidity, or force, or vivacity, with which the mind reflects upon it, and is assured of its present existence."
"Knowledge and reasoning require precise determinate ideas."
"The lively idea of any object always approaches is impression; and it is certain we may feel sickness and pain from the mere force of imagination, and make a malady real by often thinking of it."
"This is as ridiculous a way of resisting, as juvenal thought it of fighting;"
"The fundamental principle of that philosophy is the opinion concerning colours, sounds, tastes, smells, heat and cold; which it asserts to be nothing but impressions in the mind, derived from the operation of external objects, and without any resemblance to the qualities of the objects."
"We have ground from revelation, and several other reasons, to believe with assurance that there are such creatures: but our senses not being able to discover them, we want the means of knowing their particular existences."
"These here mentioned, being the effects of sensation, are only from some affections of the body, which happen to them there, and so depend on something exterior to the mind; no otherwise differing in their manner of production from other ideas derived from sense, but only in the precedency of time."
"For as the ideas of pleasure can have an influence only by means of their vivacity, which makes them approach impressions, it is most natural those ideas should have that influence, which are favoured by most circumstances, and have a natural tendency to become strong and lively; such as our ideas of the passions and sensations of any human creature."
"Ourself, independent of the perception of every other object, is in reality nothing: For which reason we must turn our view to external objects; and it is natural for us to consider with most attention such as lie contiguous to us, or resemble us."
"they had every one been sustained and brought up, and who had a tenderness for them all?"
"Why the secondary are ordinarily taken for real Qualities and not for bare Powers."
"And therefore it is that a man knows that eighteen and nineteen are equal to thirty seven, by the same self evidence that he knows one and two to be equal to three: yet a child knows this not so soon as the other; not for want of the use of reason, but because the ideas the words eighteen nineteen, and thirty seven stand for, are not so soon got, as those which are signified by one, two, and three."
"Are not these shocking notions, and are not they subject to as many ridiculous inferences, as those you were obliged to renounce before in the case of sounds?"
"The most usual cases wherein this happens, are these following:."
"Or, who ever performed any, that he might give rise to true conclusions?"
"And that, upon second thoughts, I am apt to imagine is not, as is generally supposed, the greater good in view; but some (and for the most part the most pressing)"
"Were nothing esteemed virtue but what were beneficial to society, I am persuaded, that the foregoing explication of the moral sense ought still to be received, and that upon sufficient evidence: But this evidence must grow upon us, when we find other kinds of virtue, which will not admit of any explication except from that hypothesis."
"must be a slight fabric, indeed, said which can be erected on so tottering a foundation."
"These philosophers are the curious reasoners concerning the material or immaterial substances, in which they suppose our perceptions to inhere."
"Because the ambient fluid, having a full liberty to succeed in each point of space, deserted by a lateral motion, resists such a motion of bodies, so joined,"
"But beyond these ideas, as received from their proper sources, our faculties will not reach."
"Thus the law of nature stands as an eternal rule to all men, legislators as well as others."
"Before I examine these arguments and objections in detail, I will here take them in a body, and endeavour by a short and decisive reason to prove at once, that it is utterly impossible they can have any just foundation."
"But to say or think there are no such, because we conceive nothing of them, is no better an argument than if a blind man should be positive in it, that there was no such thing as sight and colours, because he had no manner of idea of any such thing, nor could by any means frame to himself any notions about seeing."
"What may at first occur on this head, is, that as nothing can be contrary to truth or reason, except what has a reference to it, and as the judgments of our understanding only have this reference, it must follow, that passions can be contrary to reason only so far as they are accompanyed with some judgment or opinion."
"By this means it comes to pass, that men speaking the language of their country, ie according to grammar rules of that language, do yet speak very improperly of things themselves; and, by their arguing one with another, make but"
"For language being the great conduit, whereby men convey their discoveries, reasonings, and knowledge, from one to another, he that makes an ill use of it, though he does not corrupt the fountains of knowledge, which are in things themselves, yet he does, as much as in him lies, break or stop the pipes whereby it is distributed to the public use and advantage of mankind."
"And here it must be acknowledged that a man may consider a figure merely as triangular, without attending to the particular qualities of the angles, or relations of the sides."
"It may be better worth our while to remark, that this question of the local conjunction of objects does not only occur in metaphysical disputes concerning the nature of the soul, but that even in common life we have every moment occasion to examine it."
"As to the connexion betwixt benevolence and love, anger and hatred, being original and primary, it admits of no difficulty."
"containing nothing at all in them of bulk, figure, or motion we are not apt to think them the effects of these primary qualities; which appear not, to our senses, to operate in their production, and with which they have not any apparent congruity or conceivable connexion."
"that if I were not flattered this Essay might be of some use to others, as I think it has been to me, I should have confined it to the view of some friends, who gave the first occasion to it."
"The idea of the servant makes us think of the master; that of the subject carries our view to the prince."
"This is that which successively determines the will, and sets us upon those actions we perform."
"For a man to be undisturbed in danger, sedately to consider what is fittest to be done, and to execute it steadily, is a mixed mode, or a complex idea of an action which may exist."
"But to set this in a due light may be the proper business of another place."
"could any one discover a necessary connexion between malleableness and the colour or weight of gold, or any other part of the complex idea signified by that name, he might make a certain universal proposition concerning gold in this respect; and the real truth of this proposition, that would be as certain as of this,."
"The supposition, at least, that angels do sometimes assume bodies, needs not startle us; since some of the most ancient and most learned Fathers of the church seemed to believe that they had bodies: and this is certain, that their state and way of existence is unknown to us."
"a great deal further than we usually do, would we find out but some fit denominations to signify them by; whereas, in the way we take now to name them, by millions of millions of millions, andc."
"Identity of Animals."
"All desire Happiness."
"all this is very natural."
"For it is as impossible to conceive that ever bare incogitative matter should produce a thinking intelligent being, as that nothing should of itself produce matter."
"And, though they should happen to be never so lively and natural, yet, by their not being connected, and of a piece with the preceding and subsequent transactions of our lives, they might easily be distinguished from realities."
"When men consider the great pains, industry, and parts that have for so many ages been laid out on the cultivation and advancement of the sciences, and that notwithstanding all this the far greater part of them remains full of darkness and uncertainty, and disputes that are like never to have an end, and even those that are thought to be supported by the most clear and cogent demonstrations contain in them paradoxes which are perfectly irreconcilable to the understandings of men, and"
"There is a certain indulgence due to human nature in this respect."
"For example: let us take any of these rules, which, being the most obvious deductions of human reason, and conformable to the natural inclination of the greatest part of men, fewest people have had the impudence to deny or inconsideration to doubt of."
"That these are wrong ways of judging, were easy to show in every particular, if I would examine them at large singly: but I shall only mention this in general, viz."
"Experience sufficiently satisfies us to the contrary; or else those who have made this rule have done ill, that they have given us so few definitions conformable to it."
"If they mean, that by the use of reason men may discover these principles, and that this is sufficient to prove them innate; their way of arguing will stand thus, viz."
"But because men mistake generally, thinking that where the same terms are preserved, the propositions are about the same things, though the ideas they stand for are in truth different, therefore these maxims are made use of to support those which in sound and appearance are contradictory propositions; and is clear in the demonstrations above mentioned about a vacuum."
"Themistocles told the Athenians, that he had formed a design, which would be highly useful to the public, but which it was impossible for him to communicate to them without ruining the execution, since its success depended entirely on the secrecy with which it should be conducted."
"To explain the is all one as to show why, upon such and such occasions, we are affected with such and such ideas."
"Are the difficulties that attend the doctrine of incommensurable quantities, of the angle of contact, of the asymptotes to curves, or the like, sufficient to make you hold out against mathematical demonstration?"
"The terms, admirable, excellent, superlatively great, wise, and holy; these sufficiently fill the imaginations of men; and any thing beyond, besides that it leads into absurdities, has no influence on the affections or sentiments."
"General rules create a species of probability, which sometimes influences the judgment, and always the imagination."
"According as the probability inclines to good or evil, the passion of joy or sorrow predominates in the composition: Because the nature of probability is to cast a superior number of views or chances on one side; or, which is the same thing, a superior number of returns of one passion; or since the dispersed passions are collected into one, a superior degree of that passion."
"This, though in the nature of the thing there be nothing for nor against it, yet being related by historians of credit, and contradicted by no one writer, a man cannot avoid believing it, and can as little doubt of it as he does of the being and actions of his own acquaintance, whereof he himself is a witness."
"But though words, as they are used by men, can properly and immediately signify nothing but the ideas that are in the mind of the speaker; yet they in their thoughts give them a secret reference to two other things."
"We save ourselves from this total scepticism only by means of that singular and seemingly trivial property of the fancy, by which we enter with difficulty into remote views of things, and are not able to accompany them with so sensible an impression, as we do those, which are more easy and natural."
"An animal is a living organized body; and consequently the same animal, as we have observed, is the same continued communicated to different particles of matter, as they happen successively to be united to that organized living body."
"But though I have neglected any advantage, which I might have drawn from this topic in explaining the relations of ideas, I am afraid I must here have recourse to it, in order to account for the mistakes that arise from these relations."
"But to be convinced that this explication is more popular than philosophical, we need but reflect on two very obvious principles."
"It is as certain that there is a God, as that the opposite angles made by the intersection of two straight lines are equal."
"And as the former owes its generality not to its being the sign of an abstract or general line, but of right lines that may possibly exist, so the latter must be thought to derive its generality from the same cause, namely, the lines which it indifferently denotes."
"General natures are nothing but abstract and partial ideas of more complex ones."
"This mistake misleads us, both in the choice of the good we aim at, and very often in the means to it, when it is a remote good."
"All men are liable to error, and most men are in many points, by passion or interest, under temptation to it."
"Whoever is united to us by any connexion is always sure of a share of our love, proportioned to the connexion, without enquiring into his other qualities."
"It will perhaps be said, that nobody thinks that the shape makes anything immortal, but it is the shape that is the sign of a rational soul within, which is immortal."
"Our complex idea of God as infinite."
"But the consideration I shall have of it here is in a signification different from all these; and that is, as it stands for a faculty in man, that faculty whereby man is supposed to be distinguished from beasts, and wherein it is evident he much surpasses them."
"They need only say, that any phenomenon, which puzzles them, arises from a faculty or an occult quality, and there is an end of all dispute and enquiry upon the matter."
"We pity even strangers, and such as are perfectly indifferent to us: And if our ill will to another proceed from any harm or injury, it is not, properly speaking, malice, but revenge."
"For it is evident philosophers would never have had recourse to such obscure and uncertain principles, had they met with any satisfaction in such as are clear and intelligible; especially in such an affair as this, which must be an object of the simplest understanding, if not of the senses."
"he appeals to: and he that appeals to heaven must be sure he has right on his side; and a right too that is worth the trouble and cost of the appeal, as he will answer at a tribunal that cannot be deceived, and will be sure to retribute to every one according to the mischiefs he hath created to his fellow subjects; that is, any part of mankind: from whence it is plain, that he that conquers in an unjust war can thereby have no title to the subjection and obedience of the conquered."
"For God in his wisdom having set them as marks of distinction in things, whereby we may be able to discern one thing from another, and so choose any of them for our uses as we have occasion; it alters not the nature of our simple idea, whether we think that the idea of blue be in the violet itself, or in our mind only; and only the power of producing it by the texture of its parts, reflecting the particles of light after a certain manner, to be in the violet itself."
"Whilst some (and those the most) taking things upon trust, misemploy their power of assent, by lazily enslaving their minds to the dictates anddominion of others, in doctrines which it is their duty carefully to examine, and not blindly, with an implicit faith, to swallow; others, employing their thoughts only about some few things, grow acquainted sufficiently with them, attain great degrees of knowledge in them, and are ignorant of all other, having never let their thoughts loose in the search of other inquiries."
"ed A A it; and, I say, let men be once fully convinced of these two principles, and this will throw them so loose from all common systems, that they will make no difficulty of receiving any, which may appear the most extraordinary."
"It is likewise necessary, there should be a relation of ideas."
"Many of these images are supposed to concur, and a superior number to concur on one side."
"By indirect such as proceed from the same principles, but by the conjunction of other qualities."
"Nor need we fear, that our attachment to this law will diminish upon account of the seeming frivolousness of those interests, by which it is determined."
"in a constituted commonwealth, standing upon its own basis, and acting according to its own nature, that is, acting for the preservation of the community, there can be but one supreme power, which is the legislative, to which all the rest are and must be subordinate, yet the legislative being only a fiduciary power to act for certain ends, there remains still in the people a supreme power to remove or alter the legislative, when they find the legislative act contrary to the trust reposed in them: for all power given with trust for the attaining an end, being limited by that end, whenever that end is manifestly neglected, or opposed, the trust must necessarily be forfeited, and the power devolve into the hands of those that gave it, who may place it anew where they shall think best for their safety and security."
"Pity and love are to be considered in the same light."
"There was never any rational creature that set himself sincerely to examine the truth of these propositions that could fail to assent to them;"
"A piece of sensible bread, for instance, would stay my stomach better than ten thousand times as much of that insensible, unintelligible, real bread you speak of."
"But setting aside some metaphysicians of this kind, I may venture to affirm of the rest of mankind, that they are nothing but a bundle or collection of different perceptions, which succeed each other with an inconceivable rapidity, and are in a perpetual flux and movement."
"Nor can I imagine how this follows from what you said just now, to wit, that the red and yellow were on the tulip you since you do not pretend to that unthinking substance."
"And hence it follows that moral knowledge is as capable of real certainty as mathematics."
"If it be conveyed to us by our senses, I ask, which of them; and after what manner?"
"This at least is certain, that he must be accountable for whatever mistakes he runs into:"
"Now of these there are two sorts, which I shall take the liberty to mention here again:"
"No body, no power, can exempt them from the obligations of that eternal law."
"I. Confirmed by concurrent reasons:"
"No enjoyment equals the satisfaction we receive from the company of those we love and esteem; as the greatest of all punishments is to be obliged to pass our lives with those we hate or contemn."
"But, if we attentively consider the constant regularity, order, and concatenation of natural things, the surprising magnificence, beauty, and perfection of the larger, and the exquisite contrivance of the smaller parts of creation, together with the exact harmony and correspondence of the whole, but above all the never enough admired laws of pain and pleasure, and the instincts or natural inclinations, appetites, and passions of animals; I say if we consider all these things, and at the same time attend to the meaning and import of the attributes One, Eternal, Infinitely Wise, Good, and Perfect, we shall clearly perceive that they belong to the aforesaid Spirit, who works all in all, and by whom all things consist. ."
"And as to envy and revenge, though pernicious, they operate only by intervals, and are directed against particular persons, whom we consider as our superiors or enemies."
"Little and unreflecting souls may indeed burlesque the works of Providence, the beauty and order"
"who ever thought it was?"
"This difficulty we may easily solve by the following reflections."
"must we suppose they are all stark blind?"
"The first idea, that is presented to the mind, is that of the cause or productive principle."
"I will not, therefore, take any pains upon your account; and should I labour with you upon my own account, in expectation of a return"
"It is past controversy, that we have in us that thinks; our very doubts about what it is, confirm the certainty of its being, though we must content ourselves in the ignorance of what of being it is: and it is in vain to go about to be sceptical in this, as it is unreasonable in most other cases to be positive against the being of anything, because we cannot comprehend its nature."
"Though our idea of infinity arise from the contemplation of quantity, and the endless increase the mind is able to make in quantity, by the repeated additions of what portions thereof it pleases; yet I guess we cause great confusion in our thoughts,"
"I have in what just goes before been engaged in physical inquiries a little further than perhaps I intended."
"The affection and tenderness which God hath planted in the breast of parents towards their children, makes it evident, that this is not intended to be a severe arbitrary government, but only for the help, instruction, and preservation of their offspring."
"As conversation is a transcript of the mind as well as books, the same qualities, which render the one valuable, must give us an esteem for the other."
"My sympathy with another may give me the sentiment of pain and disapprobation,"
"Lord Herbert's innate Principles examined."
"It should follow then, that, according to you, real sounds may possibly be but never."
"But when the affections are once directed to ourself, the fancy passes not with the same facility from that object to any other person, how closely so ever connected with us."
"At first, indeed, the words might have occasioned ideas that were fitting to produce those emotions; but, if I mistake not, it will be found that, when language is once grown familiar, the hearing of the sounds or sight of the characters is oft immediately attended with those passions which at first were wont to be produced by the intervention of ideas that are now quite omitted."
"All the Parts of Extension are Extension, and all the Parts of Duration are Duration."
"That every particular Thing should have a Name for itself is impossible."
"Artaxerxes had an advantage above his brother, as being the eldest son, and the first in succession:"
"Now if the senses presented our impressions as external to, and independent of ourselves, both the objects and ourselves must be obvious to our senses, otherwise they coued not be compared by these faculties."
"Time and place are also the foundations of very large relations; and all finite beings at least are concerned in them."
"he designs to be so."
"For having never discovered any of these sensible qualities, where, for the reasons above mentioned, we did not likewise fancy a substance to exist; the same habit, which makes us infer a connexion betwixt cause and effect, makes us here infer a dependence of every quality on the unknown substance."
"They being therefore at least so many, that no man can know the precise and definite number, they are differently discovered by different men, according to their various skill, attention, and ways of handling; who therefore cannot choose but have different ideas of the same substance, and therefore make the signification of its common name very various and uncertain."
"Education, and the artifice of politicians, concur to bestow a farther morality on loyalty, and to brand all rebellion with a greater degree of guilt and infamy."
"And in the matter in hand, it will be in vain to argue from such a topic, that God hath done so, when certain experience shows us that he hath not."
"and to that the answer is, That ordinarily which is the most pressing of those that are judged capable of being then removed."
"When they would oppose the popular notions on this head, they always paint out the evils, which this supposed virtue has produced in human society; the subversion of empires, the devastation of provinces, the sack of cities."
"My intention then in displaying so carefully the arguments of that fantastic sect, is only to make the reader sensible of the truth of my hypothesis, that all our reasonings concerning causes and effects are derived from nothing but custom; and that belief is more properly an act of the sensitive, than of the cogitative part of our natures."
"The next operation we may observe in the mind about its ideas"
"First, because each Particle of Matter is not cogitative."
"Those perceptions, which enter with most force and violence, we may name impressions: and under this name I comprehend all our sensations, passions and emotions, as they make their first appearance in the soul."
"And thus much concerning the truth and falsehood of our ideas, in reference to their names."
": Let us duly consider its uncertainty and endless contrarieties, even in subjects of common life and practice: Let the errors and deceits of our very senses be set before us; the insuperable difficulties which attend first principles in all systems; the contradictions which adhere to the very ideas of matter, cause and effect, extension, space, time, motion; and in a word, quantity of all kinds, the object of the only science that can fairly pretend to any certainty or evidence."
"But it often happens, that the title of first possession becomes obscure through time; and that it is impossible to determine many controversies, which may arise concerning it."
", the constant conjunction of any two objects in all past experience, and the resemblance of a present object to any one of them."
"What is once past he can never recall; and what is yet to come"
"No one has ever been able to tell what wit is, and to shew why such a system of thought must be received under that denomination, and such another rejected."
"Words are not to be used without a meaning."
"It will be no excuse to an idle and untoward servant, who would not attend his business by candle light, to plead that he had not broad sunshine."
"And indeed, hard and soft are names that we give to things only in relation to the constitutions of our own bodies; that being generally called hard by us, which will put us to pain sooner than change figure by the pressure of any part of our bodies; and that, on the contrary, soft, which changes the situation of its parts upon an easy and unpainful touch."
"Folly to expect Demonstration in everything."
"Any of these past events may again happen; and we judge, that when they do happen, they will be mixed in the same proportion as in the past."
"Thirdly, our complex ideas of substances, being all referred to patterns in things themselves, may be false."
"If nature took care to provide us any ideas, we might well expect they should be such as by our own faculties we cannot procure to ourselves; but we see, on the contrary, that since, by those ways whereby other ideas are brought into our minds, this is not, we have no such clear idea at all; and therefore signify nothing by the word but only an uncertain supposition of we know not what,."
"From the same principles we blush for the conduct of those, who behave themselves foolishly before us; and that"
"First, No new simple Idea can be conveyed by traditional Revelation."
"This argument may be worth the examining."
"There is a second difference, which we may frequently observe in our degrees of belief and assurance, and which never fails to take place, though disclaimed by philosophers."
"First, It is plain he gets no power by his conquest over those that conquered with him."
"There are other particulars of this system, wherein we may remark its dependence on the fancy, in a very conspicuous manner."
"These actions are properly what we call justice; and consequently it is on that virtue that the nature of property depends, and not the virtue on the property."
"That if he had, his heirs, yet, had no right to it: /i."
"Here is a species of cosmogony, which appears to us ridiculous; because a spider is a little contemptible animal, whose operations we are never likely to take for a model of the whole universe."
", are names well known in grammar, and the particles contained under them carefully ranked into their distinct subdivisions; yet he who would show the right use of particles, and what significancy and force they have, must take a little more pains, enter into his own thoughts, and observe nicely the several postures of his mind in discoursing."
"And he that hath the ideas of substances disagreeing with the real existence of things, so far wants the materials of true knowledge in his understanding, and hath instead thereof chimeras."
"Well then, are you at length satisfied that no sensible things have a real existence; and that you are in truth an arrant sceptic?"
"But as it is certain there is a great difference betwixt the simple conception of the existence of an object, and the belief of it, and as this difference lies not in the parts or composition of the idea, which we conceive; it follows, that it must lie in the manner, in which we conceive it."
"Two objects, though perfectly resembling each other, and even appearing in the same place at different times, may be numerically different: And as the power, by which one object produces another, is never discoverable merely from their idea, it is evident cause and"
"In such collections of ideas, passing under one name, definition, or the teaching the signification of one word by several others, has place, and may make us understand the names of things which never came within the reach of our senses; and frame ideas suitable to those in other men's minds, when they use those names: provided that none of the terms of the definition stand for any such simple ideas, which he to whom the explication is made has never yet had in his thought."
"You are therefore, by your principles, forced to deny the of sensible things; since you made it to consist in an absolute existence exterior to the mind."
"The idea of duration equal to an annual revolution of the sun, is as easily in our thoughts to duration, where no sun or motion was, as the idea of a foot or yard, taken from bodies here, can be applied in our thoughts to distances beyond the confines of the world, where are no bodies at all."
"has not the one of these a right to his thousand acres for ever, and the other, during his life, paying the said rent?"
"contain in them no idea of the action or manner whereby they are produced, but barely of the cause, and the thing done."
"When Moses speaks of herbs, earth, water, andc."
"And yet it is to be feared that too many of parts and leisure, who live in Christian countries, are, merely through a supine and dreadful negligence, sunk into Atheism."
"Tell me, Hylas, is it not as I say?"
"Thus we read of the thirty tyrants at Athens, as well as one at Syracuse; and the intolerabledominion of the Decemviri at Rome was nothing better."
"All other ideas are in themselves right, and the knowledge about them right and true knowledge; but when we come to refer them to anything, as to their patterns and archetypes then they are capable of being wrong, as far as they disagree with such archetypes."
"For children, idiots, savages, and illiterate people, being of all others the least corrupted by custom, or borrowed opinions; learning and education having not cast their native thoughts into new moulds; nor by superinducing foreign and studied doctrines, confounded those fair characters nature had written there; one might reasonably imagine that in minds these innate notions should lie open fairly to every one's view, as it is certain the thoughts of children do."
"As to the second part of the proposition, that the philosophical system acquires all its influence on the imagination from the vulgar one; we may observe, that this is a natural and unavoidable consequence of the foregoing conclusion, that it has no primary recommendation to reason or the imagination."
"We ought to examine apart those two questions, which are commonly confounded together, viz."
"Nay, this is unavoidable, since, propriety being regulated by language is suited to the opinions, which are not always the truest."
"First, Whether your referring ideas to certain absolutely existing unperceived substances, as their originals, be not the source of all this scepticism?"
"But, besides that this state of mind is in itself unsatisfactory, it can never be steadily maintained against such striking appearances as continually engage us into the religious hypothesis."
"We need not be surprized, that this should happen in natural philosophy."
"But to be ingenuous, I feel myself at present of a quite contrary sentiment, and am more inclined to repose no faith at all in my senses, or rather imagination, than to place in it such an implicit confidence."
"But, as it is you who are guilty of that, and not I, it follows that in truth their aversion is against your notions and not mine."
"What connexion is there between a motion in the nerves, and the sensations of sound or colour in the mind?"
"That this mixture arises from a tacit comparison of the person contemned or respected with ourselves is no less evident."
"The assert, that the world arose from an infinite spider, who spun this whole complicated mass from his bowels, and annihilates afterwards the whole or any part of it, by absorbing it again, and resolving it into his own essence."
"For example: could two bodies be in the same place at the same time; then those two parcels of matter must be one and the same, take them great or little; nay, all bodies must be one and the same."
"And if the weight requisite very much exceeds any thing which we have ever seen conjoined in any single body, the former supposition becomes still more probable and natural."
"He that considers that the end is, in body, but the extremity or superficies of that body, will not perhaps be forward to grant that the end is a bare negative: and he that perceives the end of his pen is black or white, will be apt to think that the end is something more than a pure negation."
"To which we may add, that as long as we take our perceptions and objects to be the same, we can never infer the existence of the one from that of the other, nor form any argument from the relation of cause and effect; which is the only one that earl assure us of matter of fact."
"From which it follows that, though we should grant the existence of Matter to be never so certain, yet it is withal as certain, the materialists themselves are by their own principles forced to acknowledge, that neither the particular bodies perceived by sense, nor anything like them, exists without the mind."
"And here it may be worth while to observe, that though abstract reasoning, and the general maxims of philosophy and law establish this position, that property, and right, and obligation admit not of degrees, yet in our common and negligent way of thinking, we find great difficulty to entertain that opinion, and do even secretly embrace the contrary principle."
"The mind by an original instinct tends to unite itself with the good, and to avoid the evil, though they be conceived merely in idea, and be considered as to exist in any future period of time."
"And so may all other knowable truths, as well as these which therefore have no advantage nor distinction from other by this note of being known when we come to the use of reason; nor are thereby proved to be innate, but quite the contrary."
"Upon this ground it is that I am bold to think that morality is capable of demonstration, as well as mathematics: since the precise real essence of the things moral words stand for may be perfectly known, and so the congruity and incongruity of the things themselves be certainly discovered; in which consists perfect knowledge."
"Since it appears, that our simple impressions are prior to their correspondent ideas, and that the exceptions are very rare, method seems to require we should examine our impressions, before we consider our ideas."
"It proves not another man to be in the right way, nor that I ought to take the same with him, because I know not a better."
"Every individual is perpetually changing, and every part of every individual; and yet the whole remains, in appearance, the same."
"Thus hunger may oft be considered as the primary inclination of the soul, and the desire of approaching the meat as the secondary one; since it is absolutely necessary to the satisfying that appetite."
"Now it appears, that in the original frame of our mind, our strongest attention is confined to ourselves; our next is extended to our relations and acquaintance; and it is only the weakest which reaches to strangers and indifferent persons."
", therefore, to imagine, that we can have any idea of property, without fully comprehending the nature of justice, and shewing its origin in the artifice and contrivance of man."
"In what sense, therefore, are we to understand those expressions?"
"By which, if it be meant that a man may have one self same single idea a long time alone in his mind, without any variation at all, I think, in matter of fact, it is not possible."
"I have a true notion of relation, by comparing the action with the rule, whether the rule be true or false."
"Flame is denominated hot and light; snow, white and cold; and manna, white and sweet, from the ideas they produce in us."
"the furthest I can go is, only to presume that, it being nothing but body, its real essence or internal constitution, on which these qualities depend, can be nothing but the figure, size, and connexion of its solid parts; of neither of which having any distinct perception at all"
"must be known, when they are remembered, to have been perceptions in the mind before; unless remembrance can be without remembrance."
"When we take a survey of the passions, there occurs a division of them into and."
"The antients, though sensible of that maxim, contrived such intricate systems of the heavens, as seemed inconsistent with true philosophy, and gave place at last to something more simple and natural."
"But before I quit this argument, from what has been said give me leave to observe:."
"That Nature does nothing in vain, is a maxim established in all the schools, merely from the contemplation of the works of Nature, without any religious purpose; and, from a firm conviction of its truth, an anatomist, who had observed a new organ or canal, would never be satisfied till he had also discovered its use and intention."
"If you assert, that vice and virtue consist in relations susceptible of certainty and demonstration, you must confine yourself to those four relations, which alone admit of that degree of evidence; and in that case you run into absurdities, from which you will never be able to extricate yourself."
"And as all related or resembling objects are readily taken for each other, this has been employed as a demonstrative or even an intuitive proof of human liberty."
"Be that as it will, yet I still insist upon it, that our not being able to conceive a thing is no argument against its existence."
"They are all marks of some action or intimation of the mind; and therefore to understand them rightly, the several views, postures, stands, turns, limitations, and exceptions, and several other thoughts of the mind, for which we have either none or very deficient names, are diligently to be studied."
"I have been told that a short Epitome of this Treatise, which was printed in was by some condemned without reading, because were denied in it; they too hastily concluding, that if innate ideas were not supposed, there would be little left either of the notion or proof of spirits."
"If freedom can with any propriety of speech be applied to power, it may be attributed to the power that is in a man to produce, or forbear producing, motion in parts of his body, by choice or preference; which is that which denominates him free, and is freedom itself."
"Therein one consciously apprehends the intellectual necessities that were its previous intellectual progress."
"It is to supply our Want of Knowledge."
"Thus we extend our hatred usually to the subject (at least, if a sensible or voluntary agent) which has produced pain in us; because the fear it leaves is a constant pain: but we do not so constantly love what has done us good; because pleasure operates not so strongly on us as pain, and because we are not so ready to have hope it will do so again."
"These are too sensible proofs to be doubted; and we shall find this much more so in the names of more abstract and compounded ideas, such as are the greatest part of those which make up moral discourses: whose names, when men come curiously to compare with those they are translated into, in other languages, they will find very few of them exactly to correspond in the whole extent of their significations."
"An anatomist, however, is admirably fitted to give advice to a painter; and it is even impracticable to excel in the latter art, without the assistance of the former."
"Whether matter be not wholly destitute of active power, as its author, God, is truly above all passive power; and whether the intermediate state of created spirits be not that alone which is capable of both active and passive power, may be worth consideration."
"In a word, nature has bestowed a kind of attraction on certain impressions and ideas, by which one of them, upon its appearance, naturally introduces its correlative."
"We feel that our actions are subject to our will on most occasions, and imagine we feel that the will itself is subject to nothing; because when by a denial of it we are provoked to try, we feel that it moves easily every way, and produces an image of itself even on that side, on which it did not settle."
"This, I think almost every one has experience of in himself, and his own observation without difficulty leads him thus far."
"To begin with the examination of motion; it is evident this is a quality altogether inconceivable alone, and without a reference to some other object."
"The matter of fact is clear, I confess; but when we would a little nearer look into it, both in the one and the other; and can as little understand how the parts of body cohere, as how we ourselves perceive or move."
"Suppose, then, that the object, concerning whose reality we are doubtful, is an object either of desire or aversion, it is evident, that, according as the mind turns itself either to the one side or the other, it must feel a momentary impression of joy or sorrow."
"However natural that conversion may seem, we cannot be sure it is practicable, before we have had experience of it."
"A man standing on a cliff, is at liberty to leap twenty yards downwards into the sea, not because he has a power to do the contrary action, which is to leap twenty yards upwards, for that he cannot do; but he is therefore free, because he has a power to leap or not to leap."
"This government over him only prepared him the better and sooner for it."
"For we cannot act anything but by our faculties; nor talk of knowledge itself, but by the help of those faculties which are fitted to apprehend even what knowledge is."
"Thirdly, Of their necessary Co existence in Substances."
"And good fortune frequently contributes to all this, by discovering the effects that result from the different mixtures and combinations of bodies."
"If we will examine it, we shall not find, I suppose, the motion of dull and senseless matter, any where in the universe, made so little use of and so wholly thrown away."
"and so they do that which keeps them in reputation with their company, little regard the laws of God, or the magistrate."
", he will, by their assistance, I suppose, scarce ever come to know that the square of the hypothenuse in a right angled triangle is equal to the squares of the two other sides."
"By an action we mean much the same thing, as what is commonly called an abstract mode; that is, something, which, properly speaking, is neither distinguishable, nor separable from its substance, and is only conceived by a distinction of reason, or an abstraction."
"But this is most remarkable in the opinions and affections; and it is there principally that a lively idea is converted into an impression."
"Suppose, therefore, a great and a small object to be related together; if a person be strongly related to the great object, he will likewise be strongly related to both the objects, considered together, because he Is related to the most considerable part."
"Nothing causes greater vanity than any shining quality in our relations; as nothing mortifies us more than their vice or infamy."
"But this execution of justice, though the principal, is not the only advantage of government."
", I desire it may be shown; or at least, how in this, or any other sense, it proves them innate."
"and if they affected a contrary style in common talk it would without doubt appear very ridiculous."
"Substances have innumerable powers not contained in our complex ideas of them."
"It will possibly be censured as a great piece of vanity or insolence in me, to pretend to instruct this our knowing age; it amounting to little less,"
"This opinion I can scarce forbear retracting, and condemning from my present feeling and experience."
"Secondly, Propositions in which a part of any complex Idea is predicated of the Whole."
"Now pleasure alone, in its various degrees, seems to human understanding sufficient for this purpose."
"But did the retired life, in which he sought for shelter, afford him any greater happiness?"
"But in the present case neither of the passions coued ever become superior; because supposing it to be the view only of ourself, which excited them, that being perfectly indifferent to either, must produce both in the very same proportion; or in other words, can produce neither."
"They both have their ideas, and perceive their agreement and disagreement one with another."
"If he you would bring over to your sentiments be one that examines before he assents, you must give him leave at his leisure to go over the account again, and, recalling what is out of his mind, examine all the particulars, to see on which side the advantage lies: and if he will not think our arguments of weight enough to engage him anew in so much pains, it is but what we often do ourselves in the like case; and we should take it amiss if others should prescribe to us what points we should study."
"I do not perceive it as an idea, or by means of an idea, but know it by reflexion."
"What he adds, into the power anddominion of a foreign nation, signifies nothing, the fault and forfeiture lying in the loss of their liberty, which he ought to have preserved, and not in any distinction of the persons to whosedominion they were subjected."
"In order to shew the fallacy of all this philosophy, I shall endeavour to prove first, that reason alone can never be a motive to any action of the will; and secondly, that it can never oppose passion in the direction of the will."
"In order to decide this question, let us consider, that there is evidently the same relation of ideas, and derived from the same causes, in the minds of animals as in those of men."
"The paper, on which I write at present, is beyond my hand."
"For when we know that white is not black, what do we else but perceive, that these two ideas do not agree?"
"I mean the giving up our assent to the common received opinions, either of our friends or party, neighbourhood or country."
"If you do not conceive it, you talk unintelligibly, instead of forming a reasonable hypothesis."
"It is the same case when I recollect the several incidents of a journey, or the events of any history."
"Since in this way of speaking, nothing is gold but what partakes of an essence, which we, not knowing, cannot know where it is or is not, and so cannot be sure that any parcel of matter in the world is or is not in this sense gold; being incurably ignorant whether has or has not that which makes anything to be called gold;."
"Though identity and co existence are truly nothing but relations, yet they are such peculiar ways of agreement or disagreement of our ideas, that they deserve well to be considered as distinct heads, and not under relation in general; since they are so different grounds of affirmation and negation, as will easily appear to any one, who will but reflect on what is said in several places of this."
"For, as we have shown the doctrine of Matter or corporeal substance to have been the main pillar and support of Scepticism, so likewise upon the same foundation have been raised all the impious schemes of Atheism and Irreligion."
"The earth, and all that is therein, is given to men for the support and comfort of their being."
"This makes the consideration of and so necessary a part of the Treatise of Knowledge, that it is very hard to speak intelligibly of the one, without explaining the other."
"Let a cannon bullet pass through a room, and in its way take with it any limb, or fleshy parts of a man, it is as clear as any demonstration can be, that it must strike successively the two sides of the room: it is also evident, that it must touch one part of the flesh first, and another after, and so in succession: and yet, I believe, nobody who ever felt the pain of such a shot, or heard the blow against the two distant walls, could perceive any succession either in the pain or sound of so swift a stroke."
"Their temerity must be very great, if, after rejecting the production by a mind, I mean a mind resembling the human, (for I know of no other,) they pretend to assign, with certainty, any other specific intelligible cause: And their conscience must be very scrupulous indeed, if they refuse to call the universal unknown cause a God or Deity; and to bestow on him as many sublime eulogies and unmeaning epithets as you shall please to require of them."
"But then, that they should suppose an innumerable multitude of created beings, which they acknowledge are not capable of producing any one effect in nature, and which therefore are made to no manner of purpose, since God might have done everything as well without them: this I say, though we should allow it possible, must yet be a very unaccountable and extravagant supposition."
"If it does not, they ought to show the difference of their notion of duration, when applied to an eternal Being, and to a finite; since, perhaps, there may be others as well as I, who will own to them their weakness of understanding in this point, and acknowledge that the notion they have of duration forces them to conceive, that whatever has duration, is of a longer continuance to day than it was yesterday."
"It is just the same, and to the same purpose, when any term standing for any one or more of the simple ideas, that altogether make up that complex idea which is called man, is affirmed of the term man: .g."
"The question is not concerning the being, but the nature of God."
"But as in duration, so in extension and bulk, there are some ideas that are relative which we signify by names that are thought positive; as and are truly relations."
"Is it not as reasonable to say that is not without the mind, since if the succession of ideas in the mind become swifter, the motion, it is acknowledged, shall appear slower without any alteration in any external object?."
"As to the independency of our perceptions on ourselves, this can never be an object of the senses; but any opinion we form concerning it, must be derived from experience and observation: And we shall see afterwards, that our conclusions from experience are far from being favourable to the doctrine of the independency of our perceptions."
"If those speculative Maxims, whereof we discoursed in the foregoing chapter, have not an actual universal assent from all mankind,"
"But that magistrates, doing the same thing, may be resisted, hath of late been denied: as if those who had the greatest privileges and advantages by the law, had thereby a power to break those laws, by which alone they were set in a better place than their brethren: whereas their offence is thereby the greater, both as being ungrateful for the greater share they have by the law, and breaking also that trust, which is put into their hands by their brethren."
"To all which I answer, first, that though there were some difficulties relating to the administration of Providence, and the uses by it assigned to the several parts of nature, which I could not solve by the foregoing principles, yet this objection could be of small weight against the truth and certainty of those things which may be proved a priori, with the utmost evidence and rigor of demonstration."
"It is no more than common custom, which you know is the rule of language, hath authorised: nothing being more usual, than for philosophers to speak of the immediate objects of the understanding as things existing in the mind. '"
"but those ideas we have in our own minds."
"So that to make anything a demonstration, it is necessary to perceive the immediate agreement of the intervening ideas, whereby the agreement or disagreement of the two ideas under examination (whereof the one is always the first, and the other the last in the account) is found."
"But yet this hinders not but that, having the of the length of the motion of the shadow on a dial between the marks of two hours, I can as distinctly measure in my thoughts the duration of that candle light last night, as I can the duration of anything that does now exist: and it is no more than to think, that, had the sun shone then on the dial, and moved after the same rate it doth now, the shadow on the dial would have passed from one hour line to another whilst that flame of the candle lasted."
"though the schools, and men of argument would perhaps take it amiss to have anything offered, to abate the length or lessen the number of their disputes; yet methinks those who pretend seriously to search after or maintain truth, should think themselves obliged to study how they might deliver themselves without obscurity, doubtfulness, or equivocation, to which men's words are naturally liable, if care be not taken."
"We may, therefore, infer, that benevolence and anger are passions different from love and hatred, and only conjoined with them, by the original constitution of the mind."
"Let us suppose, beside the relations above mentioned, that the person, along with whom I make all these experiments, is closely connected with me either by blood or friendship."
"In order to explain this matter, I shall just touch upon two principles, one of which shall be more fully explained in the progress of this treatise; the other has been already accounted for."
"But, perhaps you will still say, Matter may exist; though at the same time you neither know by or by its."
"First, it is usual for men to make the names of substances stand for things as supposed to have certain real essences, whereby they are of this or that species: and names standing for nothing but the ideas that are in men's minds, they must constantly refer their ideas to such real essences, as to their archetypes."
"But are not things imagined as truly as things perceived?"
"All the parts of each form must have a relation to each other, and to the whole; and the whole itself must have a relation to the other parts of the universe; to the element in which the form subsists; to the materials with which it repairs its waste and decay; and to every other form which is hostile or friendly."
"But not to go so far as prisoners of war and the dead to find instances of this disinterested esteem for riches, let us observe with a little attention those phaenomena that occur to us in common life and conversation."
"He stands fixed in one simple, perfect state: nor can you ever say, with any propriety, that this act of his is different from that other; or that this judgement or idea has been lately formed, and will give place, by succession, to any different judgement or idea."
"Sensation convinces us that there are solid extended substances; and reflection, that there are thinking ones: experience assures us of the existence of such beings, and that the one hath a power to move body by impulse, the other by thought; this we cannot doubt of."
"After all, let me entreat you to consider whether it be like a philosopher, or even like a man of common sense, to pretend to believe you know not"
"The difference betwixt an idea produced by a general connexion, and that arising from a particular one is here compared to the difference betwixt an impression and an idea."
"Could you even blame me, if I had answered at first, that I did not know, and was sensible that this subject lay vastly beyond the reach of my faculties?"
"can act, may be accounted for, because they were not aware of the repugnancy there is, as well in supposing things like unto our ideas existing without, as in attributing to them."
"The power necessarily implies the effect; and therefore there is a just foundation for drawing a conclusion from the existence of one object to that of its usual attendant."
"For the same reason, that riches cause pleasure and pride, and poverty excites uneasiness and humility, power must produce the former emotions, and slavery the latter."
"And I think they equally forsake the truth who, running into contrary extremes, either affirm an innate law, or deny that there is a law knowable by the light of nature, ie without the help of positive revelation."
"In Simple Ideas, either by synonymous terms, or by showing examples."
"An opinion, therefore, or belief may be most accurately defined, a lively idea related to or associated with a present impression."
"If by you mean immediate objects of the understanding, or sensible things, which cannot exist unperceived, or out of a mind, then these things are ideas."
"I imagine they have it not in any great degree, for, though they probably have several ideas distinct enough, yet it seems to me to be the prerogative of human understanding,"
"and a neighbour kingdom has shewed the world an odd example."
"The freest Agents are so determined."
"And would a man be more ridiculous, who would expect that an infant of four years old will raise a weight of three hundred pound, than one, who from a person of the same age would look for a philosophical reasoning, or a prudent and well concerted action?"
"Yet I do not say, that I esteem the one more than the other:"
"A since we know not wherein thinking consists, nor to what sort of substances the Almighty has been pleased to give that power, which cannot be in any created being, but merely by the good pleasure and bounty of the Creator."
"Is it not as great a contradiction to talk of a thing which is It is."
"For my part, when I enter most intimately into what I call myself, I always stumble on some particular perception or other, of heat or cold, light or shade, love or hatred, pain or pleasure."
"The good qualities of others, from the first point of view, produce love; from the second, humility; and from the third, respect; which is a mixture of these two passions."
"Though therefore these things might, to people not possessed with scholastic learning, be treated of in a better and clearer way yet"
"When it often returns upon us, the novelty wears off; the passions subside; the hurry of the spirits is over; and we survey the objects with greater tranquillity."
"that body and extension are the same thing, who either change the signification of words, which I would not suspect them of, they having so severely condemned the philosophy of others, because it hath been too much placed in the uncertain meaning, or deceitful obscurity of doubtful or insignificant terms."
"For it is by their names that men commonly regulate their account of their distinct species of mixed modes, seldom allowing or considering any number of simple ideas to make one complex one, but such collections as there be names for."
"For example: let us consider the complex idea we signify by the word murder: and when we have taken it asunder, and examined all the particulars, we shall find them to amount to a collection of simple ideas derived from reflection or sensation, viz."
"Trace it a little further, and you find the mind in sleep retired as it were from the senses, and out of the reach of those motions made on the organs of sense, which at other times produce very vivid and sensible ideas."
"But, from what you have laid down it follows that both the extension by you perceived, and that perceived by the mite itself, as likewise all those perceived by lesser animals, are each of them the true extension of the mite's foot; that is to say, by your own principles you are led into an absurdity."
"Why we annex the idea of virtue to justice, and of vice to injustice."
"For example, does it not require some pains and skill to form the general idea of a triangle,(which is yet none of the more abstract, comprehensive, and difficult,) for it must be neither oblique nor rectangle, neither equilateral, equicrural, nor scalinon; but all and none of these at once."
"How can the supposed reality of that which is intangible be a proof that anything tangible really exists?"
"A distinct name for every particular thing not fitted for enlargement of knowledge."
"We shall briefly examine each of these in order, and shall subjoin some considerations concerning our general and particular ideas, before we leave the present subject, which may be considered as the elements of this philosophy."
"Now virtue and vice are attended with these circumstances."
"First, Words are often employed without any, or without clear Ideas."
"The examination of the impression bestows a clearness on the idea; and the examination of the idea bestows a like clearness on all our reasoning."
"What Good is desired, what not."
"Though I think no small part of the confusion to be found in the notions of men might, by care and ingenuity, be avoided, yet I am far from concluding it everywhere wilful."
"Desire is always moved by evil, to fly it: because a total freedom from pain always makes a necessary part of our happiness: but every good, nay, every greater good, does not constantly move desire, because it may not make, or may not be taken to make, any necessary part of our happiness."
"But though men, when they enter into society, give up the equality, liberty, and executive power they had in the state of nature, into the hands of the society, to be so far disposed of by the legislative, as the good of the society shall require; yet it being only with an intention in every one the better to preserve himself, his liberty and property; (for no rational creature can be supposed to change his condition with an intention to be worse)"
"For if such an inference may be drawn merely from the ideas of body, of motion, and of impulse, it must amount to a demonstration, and must imply the absolute impossibility of any contrary supposition."
"Whilst the parties of men cram their tenets down all men's throats whom they can get into their power, without permitting them to examine their truth or falsehood; and will not let truth have fair play in the world, nor men the liberty to search after it"
"In all these Cases, and particularly that of accession, there is first a natural union betwixt the Idea of the person and that of the object, and afterwards a new and moral union produced by that right or property, which we ascribe to the person."
"In what sense we can talk either of a right or a wrong taste in morals, eloquence, or beauty, shall be considerd afterwards."
"If I have not the good luck to please, yet nobody ought to be offended with me."
"Who almost is there that hath the leisure, patience, and means to collect together all the proofs concerning most of the opinions he has, so as safely to conclude that he hath a clear and full view; and that there is no more to be alleged for his better information?"
"It would be absurd, therefore, to will any new obligation, that is, any new sentiment of pain or pleasure; nor is it possible, that men coued naturally fall into so gross an absurdity."
"Spirits capable of Motion."
"Secondly, We find by experience, that two bodies, which are so placed as to affect the senses in the same manner with two others, that have a certain extent of visible objects interposed betwixt them, are capable of receiving the same extent, without any sensible impulse or penetration, and without any change on that angle, under which they appear to the senses."
"So that if any one will examine himself concerning his notion of pure substance in general, he will find he has no other idea of it at all, but only a supposition of he knows not what of such qualities which are capable of producing simple ideas in us; which qualities are commonly called accidents."
"Morality is a subject that interests us above all others: We fancy the peace of society to be at stake in every decision concerning it; and it is evident, that this concern must make our speculations appear more real and solid, than where the subject is, in a great measure, indifferent to us."
"According to this system, love is nothing but the desire of happiness to another person, and hatred that of misery."
"At least it must be confest, that having idea of the substance of the soul, it is impossible for us to tell how it can admit of such differences, and even contrarieties of perception without any fundamental change; and consequently can never tell in what sense perceptions are actions of that substance."
"A mountain neither magnifies nor diminishes a horse in our eyes; but when a Flemish and a Welsh horse are seen together, the one appears greater and the other less, than when viewed apart."
"Nor does the mind rest there; but returning back upon its footsteps, transfers to their predecessors and ancestors that right, which it naturally ascribes to the posterity, as being related together, and united in the imagination."
"is remarkable, that the imagination and affections have close union together, and that nothing, which affects the former, can be entirely indifferent to the latter."
"This is the first and most general Division of the Objects of our Understanding."
"Add to this, that in tracing an eternal succession of objects, it seems absurd to inquire for a general cause or first author."
"Thus the being and welfare of a man's children or friends, producing constant delight in him, he is said constantly to love them."
"in judging after this manner you allow, that extension is composed of indivisible points (which, perhaps, is more than you intend) besides this"
"And thus we see, that foreigners, by living all their lives under another government, and enjoying the privileges and protection of it, though they are bound, even in conscience, to submit to its administration, as far forth as any denison; yet do not thereby come to be subjects or members of that commonwealth."
"For example, suppose a traveller should tell you that in a certain country men pass unhurt through the fire; and, upon explaining himself, you found he meant by the word fire that which others call."
"You propose then, said to erect religious faith on philosophical scepticism; and you think, that if certainty or evidence be expelled from every other subject of inquiry, it will all retire to these theological doctrines, and there acquire a superior force and authority."
"Here, therefore, is a new species of Anthropomorphism, on which you may deliberate; and a theory which seems not liable to any considerable difficulties."
"But this at least is worth the consideration of those who call themselves gentlemen, That, however they may think credit, respect, power, and authority the concomitants of their birth and fortune, yet they will find all these still carried away from them by men of lower condition, who surpass them in knowledge."
"No demonstration of the Being of God!"
"These form the most considerable part of morality."
"It is evident likewise, that these actions must be attended with an idea of utility, in order to their having any effect upon us."
"Suppose two objects to be presented to me, which are not connected by any kind of relation."
"But when he represents to himself other men's ideas by some of his own, if he consent to give them the same names that other men do, it is still to his own ideas; to ideas that he has, and not to ideas that he has not."
"Hence it is, that many of those names, which, duly considered, do include evident relations, have been called."
"From this principle I have accounted for that species of probability, derived from analogy, where we transfer our experience in past instances to objects which are resembling, but are not exactly the same with those concerning which we have had experience."
"To enter, therefore, upon the question concerning the source of the error and deception with regard to identity, when we attribute it to our resembling perceptions, notwithstanding their interruption; I must here recal an observation, which I have already provd and explaind Part Sect."
"Those who have fairly and truly examined, and are thereby got past doubt in all the doctrines they profess and govern themselves by, would have a juster pretence to require others to follow them: but these are so few in number, and find so little reason to be magisterial in their opinions, that nothing insolent and imperious is to be expected from them: and there is reason to think,"
"Suppose that there is a natural, universal, invariable language, common to every individual of human race; and that books are natural productions, which perpetuate themselves in the same manner with animals and vegetables, by descent and propagation."
"If Reason discovered them, that would not prove them innate."
"Thus we believe that Caesar was killed in the senate house on the ides of March; and that because this fact is established on the unanimous testimony of historians, who agree to assign this precise time and place to that event."
"There are many other qualities of the mind, whose merit is derived from the same origin, industry, perseverance, patience, activity, vigilance, application, constancy, with other virtues of that kind, which it will be easy to recollect, are esteemed valuable upon no other account, than their advantage in the conduct of life."
"From whence it seems probable to me, that the simple ideas we receive from sensation and reflection are the boundaries of our thoughts;"
"These, with some other larger additions never before printed, he has engaged to print by themselves, after the same manner, and for the same purpose, as was done when this Essay had the second impression."
"whereof the diagonal is an inch long, he may have the idea also of the division of that line into a certain number of equal parts;.g."
"There is nothing more commonly taken for granted than that there are certain both"
"Nay, if we look a little more nearly into this matter, and exactly compare different languages, we shall find that, though they have words which in translations and dictionaries are supposed to answer one another, yet there is scarce one often amongst the names of complex ideas, especially of mixed modes, that stands for the same precise idea which the word does that in dictionaries it is rendered by."
"The next thing therefore to be considered is, What kind of signification it is that general words have."
"And granting that we never hear a sound but when some motion is produced in the air, yet I do not see how you can infer from thence, that the sound itself is in the air."
"But neither will these archetypes so well serve to this purpose as to leave these names without very various and uncertain significations."
"It happened well, to let you see what innocent and agreeable pleasures you lose every morning."
"Solidity is hereby also differenced from hardness, in that solidity consists in repletion, and so an utter exclusion of other bodies out of the space it possesses: but hardness, in a firm cohesion of the parts of matter, making up masses of a sensible bulk, so that the whole does not easily change its figure."
"As is the showing the agreement or disagreement of two ideas, by the intervention of one or more proofs, which have a constant, immutable, and visible connexion one with another; so is nothing but the appearance of such an agreement or disagreement, by the intervention of proofs, whose connexion is not constant and immutable, or at least is not perceived to be so, but is, or appears for the most part to be so, and is enough to induce the mind to judge the proposition to be true or false, rather than the contrary."
"All kinds of reasoning consist in nothing but a comparison, and a discovery of those relations, either constant or inconstant, which two or more objects bear to each other."
"What has been said may also discover to us the reason why men in this world prefer different things, and pursue happiness by contrary courses."
"And thus also all moral words terminate at last, though perhaps more remotely, in a collection of simple ideas:"
"Consequently, the very same arguments which you admitted as conclusive against the Secondary Qualities are, without any farther application of force, against the Primary too."
"We as plainly find the difference there is between any idea revived in our minds by our own memory, and actually coming into our minds by our senses, as we do between any two distinct ideas."
"is whereby it puts together several of those simple ones it has received from sensation and reflection, and combines them into complex ones."
"The rules that they make for other men's actions, must, as well as their own and other men's actions, be conformable to the law of nature, ie to the will of God, of which that is a declaration, and the fundamental law of nature being the preservation of mankind, no human sanction can be good, or valid against it."
"To deal ingenuously, Philonous, now I consider the point, I do not find I can give you any good reason for it."
"Experience may procure is Convenience, not Science."
"But how great soever the pitch may be, to which this vivacity rises, it is evident, that in poetry it never has the same feeling with that which arises in the mind, when we reason, though even upon the lowest species of probability."
"it is to the greatest contemners of knowledge, to be found ignorant in things they are concerned to know."
"This deceitful method of reasoning is a plain proof, that there are contained in the subject some obscurities and difficulties, which we are not able to surmount, and which we desire to evade by this artifice."
"To which, if we add larger comprehension, which enables them at one glance to see the connexion and agreement of very many ideas, and readily supplies to them the intermediate proofs, which we by single and slow steps, and long poring in the dark, hardly at last find out, and are often ready to forget one before we have hunted out another; we may guess at some part of the happiness of superior ranks of spirits, who have a quicker and more penetrating sight, as well as a larger field of knowledge."
"It is not easy for the mind to put off those confused notions and prejudices it has imbibed from custom, inadvertency, and common conversation."
"It frequently happens, that when two men have been engaged in any scene of action, the one shall remember it much better than the other, and shall have all the difficulty in the world to make his companion recollect it."
"Though the first of these, having the name given to it, may, in respect of that name, be a right or wrong idea; but the other, whilst it has not a common received name of any known language assigned to it, is not capable of any deformity, being made with no reference to anything but itself."
"concern'd on the one side or the other."
"Some astonishment, indeed, will naturally arise from the greatness of the object; some melancholy from its obscurity; some contempt of human reason, that it can give no solution more satisfactory with regard to so extraordinary and magnificent a question."
"His words produce the same ideas in both; though his testimony has not the same influence on them."
"Upon its acquiring greater force, we become so interested in the concerns of the person, as to be sensible both of his good and had fortune; and from that compleat sympathy there arises pity and benevolence."
"Observable in Children."
"Accordingly we find, that when we either love or hate any person, the passions seldom continue within their first bounds; but extend themselves towards all the contiguous objects, and comprehend the friends and relations of him we love or hate."
"The principal of union being regarded as the chief part of the complex idea, gives entrance to whatever quality afterwards occurs, and is equally comprehended by it, as are the others, which first presented themselves."
"One may safely affirm, that this proportion finds itself, without any art or study of men; as we may observe on many other occasions."
"It is of that consequence to its other knowledge, that so far as this faculty is in itself dull, or not rightly made use of, for the distinguishing one thing from another, so far our notions are confused, and our reason and judgment disturbed or misled."
"This is to make our comprehension infinite, or God finite, when what He can do is limited to what we can conceive of it."
"But as the case is not the same with regard to the different ages of women, for this reason, though men know, that these notions are founded on the public interest, yet the general rule carries us beyond the original principle, and makes us extend the notions of modesty over the whole sex, from their earliest infancy to their extremest old age and infirmity."
"Can one and the same thing be at the same time in itself of different dimensions?"
"But here I return to what I have already remarked, that the pleasure of study conflicts chiefly in the action of the mind, and the exercise of the genius and understanding in the discovery or comprehension of any truth."
"Men would often see what a small pittance of reason and truth, or possibly none at all, is mixed with those huffing opinions they are swelled with; if they would but look beyond fashionable sounds, and observe what are or are not comprehended under those words with which they are so armed at all points, and with which they so confidently lay about them."
"So far as he is told it has a resemblance with any tastes"
"Now as it frequently happens, that these mutual performances cannot be finished at the same instant, it is necessary, that one party be contented to remain in uncertainty, and depend upon the gratitude of the other for a return of kindness."
"Happiness, under this view, every one constantly pursues, and desires what makes any part of it: other things, acknowledged to be good, he can look upon without desire, pass by, and be content without."
"Nothing causes any sentiment to have a greater influence upon us than custom, or turns our imagination more strongly to any object."
"But if the same thing be told to one born between the tropics, who never saw nor heard of any such thing before, there the whole probability relies on testimony: and as the relators are more in number, and of more credit, and have no interest to speak contrary to the truth, so that matter of fact is like to find more or less belief."
"but yet I think it must be allowed that several moral rules may receive from mankind a very general approbation, without either knowing or admitting the true ground of morality; which can only be the will and law of a God, who sees men in the dark, has in his hand rewards and punishments, and power enough to call to account the proudest offender."
"I will not here inquire; but that they were so in the thoughts of the vulgar"
"The ideas of colours, sounds, and other secondary qualities are excluded."
"Farther, therefore, we are not concerned; and thus far you leave things as you found them."
"For should one say, that Abraham was born in the two thousand seven hundred and twelfth year of the Julian period, it is altogether as intelligible as reckoning from the beginning of the world, though there were so far back no motion of the sun, nor any motion at all."
"For as like effects imply like causes, we must always ascribe the causation to the circumstance, wherein we discover the resemblance."
"For first, daily experience convinces us, that pride requires certain causes to excite it, and languishes when unsupported by some excellency in the character, in bodily accomplishments, in cloaths, equipage or fortune."
"If you change their position, you suppose a motion."
"For takeing the first case of rivalship; though the pleasure and advantage of an antagonist necessarily causes my pain and loss, yet to counter ballance this, his pain and loss causes my pleasure and advantage; and supposing him to be unsuccessful, I may by this means receive from him a superior degree of satisfaction."
"When a criminal reflects on the punishment he deserves, the idea of it is magnifyed by a comparison with his present ease and satisfaction; which forces him, in a manner, to seek uneasiness, in order to avoid so disagreeable a contrast."
"The multiplication and obstinacy of disputes, which have so laid waste the intellectual world, is owing to nothing more than to this ill use of words."
"But this accounts not sufficiently for the satisfaction, which attends riches."
"Where the picture bears him no resemblance, or at least was not intended for him, it never so much as conveys our thought to him: And where it is absent, as well as the person; though the mind may pass from the thought of the one to that of the other; it feels its idea to be rather weekend than inlivened by that transition."
"For there is nothing more common than contrariety of opinions; nothing more obvious than that one man wholly disbelieves what another only doubts of, and a third steadfastly believes and firmly adheres to."
"It shall therefore be allowed for a moment, that the production of one object by another in any one instance implies a power; and that this power is connected with its effect."
"What more is contained in that maxim, than what the signification of the word or the does of itself import?"
"Thus, the winds are requisite to convey the vapours along the surface of the globe, and to assist men in navigation: but how oft, rising up to tempests and hurricanes, do they become pernicious?"
"A child having taken notice of nothing in the metal he hears called but the bright shining yellow colour, he applies the word gold only to his own idea of that colour, and nothing else; and therefore calls the same colour in a peacock's tail gold."
"For is it more certain, that two flat pieces of marble will unite together, than that two young savages of different sexes will copulate?"
"The idea, therefore, of place we have by the same means that we get the idea of space, (whereof this is but a particular limited consideration,)"
"This is the distinguishing character of beauty, and forms all the difference betwixt it and deformity, whose natural tendency is to produce uneasiness."
"To understand this we must consider, that custom, to which I attribute all belief and reasoning, may operate upon the mind in invigorating an idea after two several ways."
"For example, when I look on a picture or statue of Julius Caesar, I may be said after a manner to perceive him (though not immediately) by my senses."
"Since the uneasiness arises from the opposition of two contrary principles, it must look for relief by sacrificing the one to the other."
"These two principles of authority and sympathy influence almost all our opinions; but must have a peculiar influence, when we judge of our own worth and character."
"Whatsoever the mind perceives or is the immediate object of perception, thought, or understanding, that I call and the power to produce any idea in our mind, I call of the subject wherein that power is."
"And, lastly, whether, in case I granted all you contend for, it would make anything to your purpose; it not being easy to conceive how the external or absolute existence of an unthinking substance, distinct from its being perceived, can be inferred from my allowing that there are certain things perceived by the mind of God, which are to Him the occasion of producing ideas in us?"
"There must, therefore, be some cause different from the object."
"Another perhaps added to these the ideas of fusibility and fixedness, two other passive powers, in relation to the operation of fire upon it; another, its ductility and solubility in aqua regia, two other powers, relating to the operation of other bodies, in changing its outward figure, or separation of it into insensible parts."
"It is a hard matter to say where sensible and rational begin, and where insensible and irrational end: and who is there quick sighted enough to determine precisely which is the lowest species of living things, and which the first of those which have no life?"
"First, when the mind having any idea, it and concludes it the same that is in other men's minds, signified by the same name; or that it is conformable to the ordinary received signification or definition of that word, when indeed it is not: which is the most usual mistake in mixed modes, though other ideas also are liable to it."
"Whereby it is evident that the of the sorts, or, if the Latin word pleases better, of things, are nothing else but these abstract ideas."
"when so done: for as a good prince, who is mindful of the trust put into his hands, and careful of the good of his people, cannot have too much prerogative, that is, power to do good; so a weak and ill prince, who would claim that power which his predecessors exercised without the direction of the law, as a prerogative belonging to him by right of his office, which he may exercise at his pleasure, to make or promote an interest distinct from that of the public, gives the people an occasion to claim their right, and limit that power, which, whilst it was exercised for their good"
"So that, upon the whole, nothing could be more ridiculous than the principles of the ancient if in reality they endeavoured, as is pretended, to extend, throughout, the same scepticism which they had learned from the declamations of their schools, and which they ought to have confined to them."
"So that though ideas formerly imprinted are not all constantly in view, yet in remembrance they are constantly known to be such as have been formerly imprinted; ie in view, and taken notice of before, by the understanding."
"If you feel not human misery yourself, cried I congratulate you on so happy a singularity."
"Let us now examine the second principle, viz, the agreeable expectation of advantage, and see what force we may justly attribute to it."
"This Train, the Measure of other Successions."
"Those few ideas only which have a discernible connexion with our nominal essence, or any part of it, can afford us such propositions."
"This I say, though we had some positive conception of Matter, though we knew its qualities, and could comprehend its existence, would yet be so far from explaining things, that it is itself the most inexplicable thing in the world."
"There are also instances of the relation of impressions, sufficient to convince us, that there is an union of certain affections with each other in the inferior species of creatures as well as in the superior, and that their minds are frequently conveyed through a series of connected emotions."
"And agreeably to those conditions of the simple and local value of figures, were contrived methods of finding, from the given figures or marks of the parts, what figures and how placed are proper to denote the whole, or vice versa."
"Secondly, we may conclude from the same principle, that the sense of justice is not founded on reason, or on the discovery of certain connexions and relations of ideas, which are eternal, immutable, and universally obligatory."
"Whatever is extended consists of parts; and whatever consists of parts is divisible, if not in reality, at least in the imagination."
"Whoever proposes to draw any profit from our submission, must engage himself, either expressly or tacitly, to make us reap some advantage from his authority; nor ought he to expect, that without the performance of his part we will ever continue in obedience."
"Ideas and impressions appear always to correspond to each other."
"By what we have premised, it is plain that very numerous and important errors have taken their rise from those false Principles which were impugned in the foregoing parts of this treatise; and the opposites of those erroneous tenets at the same time appear to be most fruitful Principles, from whence do flow innumerable consequences highly advantageous to true philosophy, as well as to religion."
"But a capacity of pain would not alone produce pain, were it not for the second circumstance, viz."
"For a man looking upon a body really moving, perceives yet no motion at all unless that motion produces a constant train of successive ideas:.g."
"Sounds also, besides the distinct cries of birds and beasts, are modified by diversity of notes of different length put together, which make that complex idea called a tune, which a musician may have in his mind when he hears or makes no sound at all, by reflecting on the ideas of those sounds, so put together silently in his own fancy."
"As in simple space, we consider the relation of distance between any two bodies or points; so in our idea of place, we consider the relation of distance betwixt anything, and any two or more points, which are considered as keeping the same distance one with another, and so considered as at rest."
"Mental Propositions are very hard to be treated of."
"If I have dwelt pretty long on the consideration of duration, space, and number, and what arises from the contemplation of them, Infinity, it is possibly no more than the matter requires; there being few simple ideas whose give more exercise to the thoughts of men than those do."
"As in vegetables and animals it is the shape, so in most other bodies, not propagated by seed, it is the"
"It is plain, that in the course of our thinking, and in the constant revolution of our ideas, our imagination runs easily from one idea to any other that resembles it, and that this quality alone is to the fancy a sufficient bond and association."
"Whatever object, therefore, is related to ourselves must be conceived with a little vivacity of conception, according to the foregoing principles; and though this relation should not be so strong as that of causation, it must still have a considerable influence."
"Truth or falshood consists in an agreement or disagreement either to the real relations of ideas, or to real existence and matter of fact."
"incidere possunt quibus populo sese erigere atque in regem impotentiusdominantem arma capere and invadere"
"Experiments and historical observations we may have, from which we may draw advantages of ease and health, and thereby increase our stock of conveniences for this life; but beyond this I fear our talents reach not, nor are our faculties, as I guess, able to advance."
"But these two latter are our fault, and not the fault of reason."
"Besides, the remainder, after such enclosure, would not be as good to the rest of the commoners, as the whole was when they could all make use of the whole; whereas in the beginning and first peopling of the great common of the world, it was quite otherwise."
"where the ideas themselves, by an immediate view, discover their agreement or disagreement one with another."
"It is reasonable for those philosophers, who assert justice to be a natural virtue, and antecedent to human conventions, to resolve all civil allegiance into the obligation of a promise, and assert that it is our own consent alone, which binds us to any submission to magistracy."
"For it is plain that names of substantial beings, as well as others, as far as they have relative significations affixed to them, may, with great truth, be joined negatively and affirmatively in propositions, as their relative definitions make them fit to be so joined; and propositions consisting of such terms, may, with the same clearness, be deduced one from another, as those that convey the most real truths: and all this without any knowledge of the nature or reality of things existing without us."
"Upon examination, I find only one of the reasons commonly produced for this opinion to be satisfactory, viz."
"Impulse on the organ insufficient."
"Thus the course of the argument leads us to conclude, that since vice and virtue are not discoverable merely by reason, or the comparison of ideas, it must be by means of some impression or sentiment they occasion, that we are able to mark the difference betwixt them."
"Besides, consider, This very society, by which we surmount those wild beasts, our natural enemies; what new enemies does it not raise to us?"
"The giving of stone and earth represents the delivery of a mannor."
"solidity, extension, figure, motion, and rest; and those that almost constantly affect our bodies, as heat and cold; and those which are the affections of all kinds of beings, as existence, duration, and number, which almost every object that affects our senses, every thought which employs our minds, bring along with them; these, I say, and the like ideas, are seldom quite lost, whilst the mind retains any ideas at all."
"Thirdly, the last sort of complex ideas is that we call which consists in the consideration and comparing one idea with another."
"Think on these points; let them be attentively considered and still kept in view."
"Tell me then once more, do you acknowledge that heat and cold, sweetness and bitterness"
"Let us examine a little the description that is here given us of matter."
"In order to put this whole affair in a fuller light, let us consider it as a question in natural philosophy, which we must determine by experience and observation."
"The reason whereof is this, That the several terms of a definition, signifying several ideas, they can all together by no means represent an idea which has no composition at all: and therefore a definition, which is properly nothing but the showing the meaning of one word by several others not signifying each the same thing, can in the names of simple ideas have no place."
"Of these impressions or ideas of the memory we form a kind of system, comprehending whatever we remember to have been present, either to our internal perception or senses; and every particular of that system, joined to the present impressions, we are pleased to call a reality."
"But what have I here said, that reflections very refined and metaphysical have little or no influence upon us?"
"But, since one idea cannot be the cause of another, to what purpose is that connexion?"
"Suppose that each of these objects separately produces a passion; and that these two passions are in themselves contrary: We find from experience, that the want of relation in the objects or ideas hinders the natural contrariety of the passions, and that the break in the transition of the thought removes the affections from each other, and prevents their opposition."
"To excite any passion, and at the same time raise an equal share of its antagonist, is immediately to undo what was done, and must leave the mind at last perfectly calm and indifferent."
"For, though it may be reasonable to ask, Whether obeying the magnet be essential to iron?"
"a liberty for every one to do what he lists, to live as he pleases, and not to be tied by any laws: but freedom of men under government is, to have a standing rule to live by, common to every one of that society, and made by the legislative power erected in it; a liberty to follow my own will in all things, where the rule prescribes not; and not to be subject to the inconstant, uncertain, unknown, arbitrary will of another man: as freedom of nature is, to be under no other restraint but the law of nature."
"Expansion and duration have this further agreement, that, though they are both considered by us as having parts, yet their parts are not separable one from another, no not even in thought: though the parts of bodies from whence we take our of the one; and the parts of motion, or rather the succession of ideas in our minds, from whence we take the of the other, may be interrupted and separated; as the one is often by rest, and the other is by sleep, which we call rest too."
"It is true, common use, that is, the rule of propriety may be supposed here to afford some aid, to settle the signification of language; and it cannot be denied but that in some measure it does."
"But as to the powers of substances to change the sensible qualities of other bodies, which make a great part of our inquiries about them, and is no inconsiderable branch of our knowledge; I doubt as to these, whether our knowledge reaches much further than our experience; or whether we can come to the discovery of most of these powers, and be certain that they are in any subject, by the connexion with any of those ideas which to us make its essence."
"After a little examination, we shall find, that all those objects, to which we attribute a continued existence, have a peculiar constancy, which distinguishes them from the impressions, whose existence depends upon our perception."
"was proceeding in this vehement manner, somewhat between jest and earnest, as it appeared to me, when he observed some signs of impatience in and then immediately stopped short."
"as they or the things they stand for do agree or not, that is, as I may call it,."
"Instances of Enormities practised without Remorse."
"Like effects prove like causes."
"The removal of either of these destroys the passion; which evidently proves that the cause Is a compounded one."
"But besides affirmation or negation, without which there is in words no truth or falsehood, the mind does, in declaring its sentiments to others, connect not only the parts of propositions, but whole sentences one to another, with their several relations and dependencies, to make a coherent discourse."
"are wholly without ideas of God and principles of morality, or at least have but very ill ones; the reason in both cases being, that they never employed their parts, faculties, and powers industriously that way, but contented themselves with the opinions, fashions, and things of their country, as they found them, without looking any further."
"Of all the animals, with which this globe is peopled, there is none towards whom nature seems, at first sight, to have exercised more cruelty than towards man, in the numberless wants and necessities, with which she has loaded him, and in the slender means, which she affords to the relieving these necessities."
"As in this case it is the consciousness that goes along with the substance, when one part is separate from another, which makes the same person, and constitutes this inseparable self: so it is in reference to substances remote in time."
"And when we have to do with a man, who makes a great profession of religion and devotion, has this any other effect upon several, who pass for prudent, than to put them on their guard, lest they be cheated and deceived by him?"
"Now we may easily observe, that relation is not confined merely to one degree; but that from an object, that is related to us, we acquire a relation to every other object, which is related to it, and so on, till the thought loses the chain by too long a progress, However the relation may weaken by each remove, it is not immediately destroyed; but frequently connects two objects by means of an intermediate one, which is related to both."
"For though the pressure of the particles of air may account for the cohesion of several parts of matter that are grosser than the particles of air, and have pores less than the corpuscles of air, yet the weight or pressure of the air will not explain, nor can be a cause of the coherence of the particles of air themselves."
"Which is so, because, till after they come to the use of reason, those general abstract ideas are not framed in the mind, about which those general maxims are, which are mistaken for innate principles, but are indeed discoveries made and verities introduced and brought into the mind by the same way, and discovered by the same steps, as several other propositions, which nobody was ever so extravagant as to suppose innate."
"This knowledge, by intervening proofs, though it be certain, yet the evidence of it is not altogether so clear and bright, nor the assent so ready, as in intuitive knowledge."
"be much more than what so slight a subject required."
"may possibly have been the cause, if not of great disorders, yet at least of great disputes, and perhaps mistakes in the world."
"These opinions are that of the vulgar, that of a false philosophy, and that of the true; where we shall find upon enquiry, that the true philosophy approaches nearer to the sentiments of the vulgar, than to those of a mistaken knowledge."
"In short, every one of his faults we either endeavour to extenuate, or dignify it with the name of that virtue, which approaches it."
"For, by the same reason that two particles of matter may be in one place, all bodies may be in one place: which, when it can be supposed, takes away the distinction of identity and diversity of one and more, and renders it ridiculous."
"It is only as a science, replied subjected to human reasoning and disputation, that I postpone the study of Natural Theology."
"It is a very extraordinary instance of the force of prejudice, and much to be lamented, that the mind of man retains so great a fondness, against all the evidence of reason, for a stupid thoughtless somewhat, by the interposition whereof it would as it were screen itself from the Providence of God, and remove it farther off from the affairs of the world."
"Would it not be an insufferable thing for a learned professor, and that which his scarlet would blush at, to have his authority of forty years standing, wrought out of hard rock, Greek and Latin, with no small expense of time and candle, and confirmed by general tradition and a reverend beard, in an instant overturned by an upstart novelist?"
"the motion of bodies that are in our view and neighbourhood seems to me plainly to evince it."
"Secondly, I answer, such revolutions happen not upon every little mismanagement in public affairs."
"We are frequently in doubt concerning the ideas of the memory, as they become very weak and feeble; and are at a loss to determine whether any image proceeds from the fancy or the memory, when it is not drawn in such lively colours as distinguish that latter faculty."
"But this being in great variety of degrees (as may be perceived amongst men) cannot certainly be discovered in the several species of animals, much less in their particular individuals."
"Whenever the mind refers any of its ideas to anything extraneous to them, they are then capable to be called true or false."
"I desire you would clear this point."
"It seems, therefore, that if you take away all sensible qualities, there remains nothing sensible?"
"Secondly, When judged to agree to real Existence, when they do not."
"A perpetual war is kindled amongst all living creatures."
"What Passions all Men have."
"But speculative reasonings, which cost so much pains to philosophers, are often formed by the world naturally, and without reflection:"
"By which means we conceive the future as flowing every moment nearer us, and the past as retiring."
"And how comes it to pass that whenever there is any fault in the going of a watch, there is some corresponding disorder to be found in the movements, which being mended by a skilful hand"
"Nevertheless, this artificial ignorance, and learned gibberish, prevailed mightily in these last ages, by the interest and artifice of those who found no easier way to that pitch of authority anddominion they have attained, than by amusing the men of business, and ignorant, with hard words, or employing the ingenious and idle in intricate disputes about unintelligible terms, and holding them perpetually entangled in that endless labyrinth."
"the conducting of the world by general laws; and this seems nowise necessary to a very perfect Being."
"I have so little affection to be in print,"
"this of abstract general ideas."
"The case is the same with contrariety, and with the degrees of any quality."
"When it considers the dye as no longer supported by the box, it can not without violence regard it as suspended in the air; but naturally places it on the table, and views it as turning up one of its sides."
"What farther proof can be desired for the present system?"
"But this is principally the case with those ideas which are abstruse and compounded."
"Secondly, the other fountain from which experience furnisheth the understanding with ideas is, the perception of the operations of our own mind within us, as it is employed about the ideas it has got;"
"And, by the senses you can best tell whether you perceive anything which is not immediately perceived."
"For, when we would consider eternity, a parte ante, what do we but, beginning from ourselves and the present time we are in, repeat in our minds ideas of years, or ages, or any other assignable portion of duration past, with a prospect of proceeding in such addition with all the infinity of number: and when we would consider eternity, a parte post, we just after the same rate begin from ourselves, and reckon by multiplied periods yet to come, still extending that line of number as before."
"south west wind, and clouds, rain, wetting, taking cold, relapse, and danger of death, without tying them together in those artificial and cumbersome fetters of several syllogisms, that clog and hinder the mind, which proceeds from one part to another quicker and clearer without them: and the probability which she easily perceives in things thus in their native state would be quite lost, if this argument were managed learnedly, and proposed in and."
"But, if our weak apprehensions cannot separate succession from any duration whatsoever, our idea of eternity can be nothing but of and whether any one has, or can have, a positive idea of an actual infinite number, I leave him to consider, till his infinite number be so great that he himself can add no more to it; and as long as he can increase it"
"And, if this notion be singular, it is a shame it should be so, at this time of day, and in a Christian country."
"Nevertheless, I do not question but that human knowledge, under the present circumstances of our beings and constitutions, may be carried much further than it has hitherto been, if men would sincerely, and with freedom of mind, employ all that industry and labour of thought, in improving the means of discovering truth, which they do for the colouring or support of falsehood, to maintain a system, interest, or party they are once engaged in."
"This reasoning, it must be confest, is somewhat abstruse, and difficult to be comprehended; but it is remarkable, that this very difficulty may be converted into a proof of the reasoning."
"The recommendations to the Divinity are generally supposed to be either frivolous observances, or rapturous ecstasies, or a bigoted credulity."
"The present hypothesis will receive additional confirmation, if we examine the effects of other kinds of custom, as well as of other relations."
"To which I answer, No: for our knowledge consisting in the perception of the agreement or disagreement of any two ideas, its clearness or obscurity consists in the clearness or obscurity of that perception, and not in the clearness or obscurity of the ideas themselves:."
"Sweet, bitter, sour, harsh, and salt are almost all the epithets we have to denominate that numberless variety of relishes, which are to be found distinct, not only in almost every sort of creatures, but in the different parts of the same plant, fruit, or animal."
"Consider that innumerable race of insects, which either are bred on the body of each animal, or, flying about, infix their stings in him."
"General Propositions to be treated of more at large."
"When I stop in the addition of parts, the idea of extension ceases to augment; and were I to carry on the addition in infinitum, I clearly perceive, that the idea of extension must also become infinite."
"It is he comes to be furnished with them."
"Let the idea of infallibility be inseparably joined to any person, and these two constantly together possess the mind; and then one body in two places at once, shall unexamined be swallowed for a certain truth, by an implicit faith, whenever that imagined infallible person dictates and demands assent without inquiry."
"For, being ignorant of the real essence itself, it is impossible to know all those properties that flow from it, and are so annexed to it, that any one of them being away, we may certainly conclude that that essence is not there, and so the thing is not of that species."
"But having more at large treated of Words, their defects, and abuses, in the following Book, I shall here say no more of it."
"Every thing is conducted by springs and principles, which are not peculiar to man, or any one species of animals."
"And should it be said, that prudence may suffice to regulate our actions in this particular, without any real pride, I would observe, that here the object of prudence is to conform our actions to the general usage and custom; and, that it is impossible those tacit airs of superiority should ever have been established and authorized by custom, unless men were generally proud, and unless that passion were generally approved, when well grounded."
"Factions, civil wars, persecutions, subversions of government, oppression, slavery; these are the dismal consequences which always attend its prevalency over the minds of men."
"It is necessary for us to leave the direct survey of this question concerning the nature of that necessary connexion, which enters into our idea of cause and effect; and endeavour to find some other questions, the examination of which will perhaps afford a hint, that may serve to clear up the present difficulty."
"And therefore it is the most intimate to our thoughts, as well as it is, in its agreement to all other things, the most universal idea we have."
"And are there not places where, at a certain age, they kill or expose their parents, without any remorse at all?"
"Every deity that they owned above one was an infallible evidence of their ignorance of Him, and a proof that they had no true notion of God, where unity, infinity, and eternity were excluded."
"Since the mind, in all its thoughts and reasonings, hath no other immediate object but its own ideas, which it alone does or can contemplate, it is evident that our knowledge is only conversant about them."
"It is so far from being a virtue to have a good memory, that men generally affect to complain of a bad one; and endeavouring to persuade the world, that what they say is entirely of their own invention, sacrifice it to the praise of genius and judgment."
"We have not any two more distinct ideas; and we can as easily conceive space without solidity, as we can conceive body or space without motion, though it be never so certain that neither body nor motion can exist without space."
"Some beauties in writing we may meet with, which seem contrary to rules, and which gain the affections, and animate the imagination, in opposition to all the precepts of criticism, and to the authority of the established masters of art."
"Hence, it is plain that the very notion of what is called or involves a contradiction in it."
"For, though in demonstration the mind does at last perceive the agreement or disagreement of the ideas it considers; yet it is not without pains and attention: there must be more than one transient view to find it."
"There is another extent of it, in respect of which will also deserve to be considered; and in this regard, our knowledge follows the nature of our ideas."
"I therefore enlarge my view to comprehend several instances; where I find like objects always existing in like relations of contiguity and succession."
"By the one, I mean that first impression which is made immediately by God on the mind of any man, to which we cannot set any bounds; and by the other, those impressions delivered over to others in words, and the ordinary ways of conveying our conceptions one to another."
"For as liberty and choice are not necessary to make an action produce in us an erroneous conclusion, they can be, in no respect, essential to morality; and I do not readily perceive, upon this system, how they can ever come to be regarded by it."
"And is not God an agent, a being purely active?"
"And though perhaps I never really feel any harm, and discover by the event, that, philosophically speaking, the person never had any power of harming me; since he did not exert any; this prevents not my uneasiness from the preceding uncertainty."
"For no government can have a right to obedience from a people who have not freely consented to it; which they can never be supposed to do, till either they are put in a full state of liberty to chuse their government and governors, or at least till they have such standing laws, to which they have by themselves or their representatives given their free consent, and also till they are allowed their due property, which is so to be proprietors of what they have, that no body can take away any part of it without their own consent, without which, men under any government are not in the state of freemen, but are direct slaves under the force of war."
"Oppression, injustice, contempt, contumely, violence, sedition, war, calumny, treachery, fraud; by these they mutually torment each other; and they would soon dissolve that society which they had formed, were it not for the dread of still greater ills, which must attend their separation."
"Of the complex ideas signified by the names and leaving out"
"Who can behold the male and female of each species, the correspondence of their parts and instincts, their passions, and whole course of life before and after generation, but must be sensible, that the propagation of the species is intended by Nature?"
"It is evident, that when any one boasts of the antiquity of his family, the subjects of his vanity are not merely the extent of time and number of ancestors, but also their riches and credit, which are supposed to reflect a lustre on himself on account of his relation to them."
"Judging is, as it were, balancing an account, and determining on which side the odds lie."
"This is the hinge on which turns the of intellectual beings, in their constant endeavours after, and a steady prosecution of true felicity, That they this prosecution in particular cases, till they have looked before them, and informed themselves whether that particular thing which is then proposed or desired lie in the way to their main end, and make a real part of that which is their greatest good."
"And what you have offered hath been disapproved and rejected by yourself."
"Traditional Testimonies, the further removed the less their Proof becomes."
"Why we attribute a continued existence to objects, even when they are not present to the senses; and why we suppose them to have an existence from the mind and perception."
"Can any man in his senses doubt whether sugar is sweet, or wormwood bitter?"
"This is the manner, in which past experiments concur, when they are transfered to any future event."
"Species of Artificial Things less confused than Natural."
"I need not conclude my syllogism."
"That is a right you cannot be denied."
"And a little after, /#"
"As wisdom and good sense are valued, because they are useful to the person possessed of them; so wit and eloquence are valued, because they are immediately agreeable to others."
"for where ever any two men are, who have no standing rule, and common judge to appeal to on earth, for the determination of controversies of right betwixt them, there they are still in the state of nature, and under all the inconveniencies of it, with only this woful difference to the subject, or rather slave of an absolute prince: that whereas, in the ordinary state of nature, he has a liberty to judge of his right, and according to the best of his power, to maintain it; now, whenever his property is invaded by the will and order of his monarch, he has not only no appeal, as those in society ought to have, but as if he were degraded from the common state of rational creatures, is denied a liberty to judge of, or to defend his right; and so is exposed to all the misery and inconveniencies, that a man can fear from one, who being in the unrestrained state of nature, is yet corrupted with flattery, and armed with power."
"Nor is the expression improper to call them Laws of Nature; if by natural we understand what is common to any species, or even if we confine it to mean what is inseparable from the species."
"Consequently they always had a being in the Divine intellect."
"but, if we could trace them to their sources, we should find, in all languages, the names which stand for things that fall not under our senses to have had their first rise from sensible ideas."
"First, We have observed, that whatever objects are different are distinguishable, and that whatever objects are distinguishable are separable by the thought and imagination."
"Thus a man may come to have the idea of or by enumerating to him the simple ideas which these words stand for; without ever seeing either of them committed."
"Who can tell me, for instance, what were his thoughts and actions on the st of January the th of March and the rd of August Or will he affirm, because he has entirely forgot the incidents of these days, that the present self is not the same person with the self of that time; and by that means overturn all the most established notions of personal identity?"
"As violent passion hinder men from seeing distinctly the interest they have in an equitable behaviour towards others; so it hinders them from seeing that equity itself, and gives them a remarkable partiality in their own favours."
"Thing or Being is the most general name of all; it comprehends under it two kinds entirely distinct and heterogeneous, and which have nothing common but the name."
"But his mistake lies not in what he perceives immediately, and at present, (it being a manifest contradiction to suppose he should err in respect of that) but in the wrong judgment he makes concerning the ideas he apprehends to be connected with those immediately perceived: or, concerning the ideas that, from what he perceives at present, he imagines would be perceived in other circumstances."
"we are here speaking of."
"Beer would not have been so proper, as being neither so agreeable to the taste nor eye."
"But whether this, 'That the soul always thinks,' be a self evident proposition, that everybody assents to at first hearing, I appeal to mankind."
"And therefore where there are supposed two different ideas, marked by two different names, which are not as distinguishable as the sounds that stand for them, there never fails to be confusion; and where any ideas are distinct as the ideas of those two sounds they are marked by, there can be between them no confusion."
"The only difference is, great robbers punish little ones, to keep them in their obedience; but the great ones are rewarded with laurels and triumphs, because they are too big for the weak hands of justice in this world, and have the power in their own possession, which should punish offenders."
"Confident I am, that, if men would in the same method, and with the same indifferency, search after moral as they do mathematical truths, they would find them have a stronger connexion one with another, and a more necessary consequence from our clear and distinct ideas, and to come nearer perfect demonstration than is commonly imagined."
"You must distinguish, Philonous, between sound as it is perceived by us, and as it is in itself; or (which is the same thing) between the sound we immediately perceive, and that which exists without us."
"The same promise, then, which binds them to obedience, ties them down to a particular person, and makes him the object of their allegiance."
"But the point itself he cannot deny."
"I mean the way of accounting for our sensations or ideas."
"But this distinction of essences, belonging particularly to substances, we shall, when we come to consider their names, have an occasion to treat of more fully."
"Mean while to give a solution of the preceding objection upon the supposition, that historical evidence amounts at first to an entire proof; let us consider, that though the links are innumerable, that connect any original fact with the present impression, which is the foundation of belief; yet they are all of the same kind, and depend on the fidelity of Printers and Copyists."
"So that, if rightly considered, I think we may say, That where our ideas are determined in our minds, and have annexed to them by us known and steady names under those settled determinations, there is little need, or no use at all of these maxims, to prove the agreement or disagreement of any of them."
"A man, who acknowledges himself to be bound to another, for a certain sum, must certainly know whether it be by his own bond, or that of his father; whether it be of his mere good will, or for money lent him; and under what conditions, and for what purposes he has bound himself."
"From the tone of voice the dog infers his masters anger, and foresees his own punishment."
"Proof that its idea is got from reflection on the train of our ideas."
"Personal Identity in Change of Substance."
"We have already observed, that moral distinctions depend entirely on certain peculiar sentiments of pain and pleasure, and that whatever mental quality in ourselves or others gives us a satisfaction, by the survey or reflection, is of course virtuous; as every thing of this nature, that gives uneasiness, is vicious."
"I am further from having any idea of its real essence than I was before."
"I will not say that the terms idea and notion may not be used convertibly, if the world will have it so; but yet it conduceth to clearness and propriety that we distinguish things very different by different names."
"Other men may think as they please; but for your part you have nothing to reproach me with."
"But as these words, and humility, are of general use, and the impressions they represent the most common of any, every one, of himself, will be able to form a just idea of them, without any danger of mistake."
"Only particular Propositions concerning concrete Existances are knowable."
"This we know and certainly find, that we want several other views of them besides those we have, to make discoveries of them more perfect."
"For, though the two flat sides of two pieces of marble will more easily approach each other, between which there is nothing but water or air, than if there be a diamond between them; yet it is not that the parts of the diamond are more solid than those of water, or resist more; but because the parts of water, being more easily separable from each other, they will, by a side motion, be more easily removed, and give way to the approach of the two pieces of marble."
"It is true the diagram I have in view includes all these particulars, but then there is not the least mention made of them in the proof of the proposition."
", I suppose what I have said in the foregoing Book will be much more easily admitted, when I have shown whence the understanding may get all the ideas it has; and by what ways and degrees they may come into the mind; for which I shall appeal to every one's own observation and experience."
"A fleet, whose purposes were salutary to society, might always meet with a fair wind."
"Suppose I were travelling with a companion through a country, to which we are both utter strangers; it is evident, that if the prospects be beautiful, the roads agreeable, and the inns commodious, this may put me into good humour both with myself and fellow traveller."
"The victory is not gained by the men at arms, who manage the pike and the sword; but by the trumpeters, drummers, and musicians of the army."
"As this dilemma is an evident consequence of the principle, that every idea arises from a similar impression, so our decision betwixt the propositions of the dilemma is no more doubtful."
"Fourthly, The delivery also of the people into the subjection of a foreign power, either by the prince, or by the legislative, is certainly a change of the legislative, and so a dissolution of the government: for the end why people entered into society being to be preserved one intire, free, independent society, to be governed by its own laws; this is lost, whenever they are given up into the power of another."
"But, as we approach to or recede from an object, the visible extension varies, being at one distance ten or a hundred times greater than another."
"So that under this consideration, the whole community is one body in the state of nature, in respect of all other states or persons out of its community."
"It is the same case with hatred."
"But it is plain that in our complex ideas of substances are not contained such ideas, on which all the other qualities that are to be found in them do depend."
"the same ideas we take them to be signs of: and every man has so inviolable a liberty to make words stand for what ideas he pleases, that no one hath the power to make others have the same ideas in their minds that he has, when they use the same words that he does."
"For as such a succession answers evidently to our notion of diversity, it can only be by mistake we ascribe to it an identity; and as the relation of parts, which leads us into this mistake, is really nothing but a quality, which produces an association of ideas, and an easy transition of the imagination from one to another, it can only be from the resemblance, which this act of the mind bears to that, by which we contemplate one continued object, that the error arises."
"We have now run over the three fundamental laws of nature, that of the stability of possession, of its transference by consent, and of the performance of promises."
"This is the idea of pure space, which they think they have as clear as any idea they can have of the extension of body: the idea of the distance between the opposite parts of a concave superficies being equally as clear without as with the idea of any solid parts between: and on the other side, they persuade themselves that they have, distinct from that of pure space, the idea of that can be protruded by the impulse of other bodies, or resist their motion."
"A builder is never esteemed prudent, who undertakes a plan beyond what his stock will enable him to finish."
"The annihilation, which some people suppose to follow upon death, and which entirely destroys this self, is nothing but an extinction of all particular perceptions; love and hatred, pain and pleasure, thought and sensation."
"Morality capable of Demonstration"
"But he would certainly have preferred wine to either of them, coued his native country have afforded him so agreeable a liquor."
"You can draw the inference yourself."
"The right then of conquest extends only to the lives of those who joined in the war, not to their estates, but only in order to make reparation for the damages received, and the charges of the war, and that too with reservation of the right of the innocent wife and children."
"Names made at pleasure, neither alter the nature of things, nor make us understand them, but as they are signs of and stand for determined ideas."
"He that will allow exquisite and endless happiness to be but the possible consequence of a good life here, and the contrary state the possible reward of a bad one, must own himself to judge"
"This is our natural and most familiar way of thinking; but which we shall learn to correct by a little reflection."
"On such an occasion we are apt not only to forget our scepticism, but even our modesty too; and make use of such terms as these, it is evident, it is certain, it is undeniable;"
"The answer is easy with regard to propositions, that are proved by intuition or demonstration."
"And yet men think it strange, if in discourse, or (where it is often absolutely necessary) in dispute, one sometimes asks the meaning of their terms: though the arguings one may every day observe in conversation make it evident, that there are few names of complex ideas which any two men use for the same just precise collection."
"Have we not the same reason to trace that ideal world into another ideal world, or new intelligent principle?"
"and he would have known what I think of the eternal and unalterable nature of right and wrong, and what I call virtue and vice."
"I have made choice of these terms to signify, Some immediate object of the mind, which it perceives and has before it, distinct from the sound it uses as a sign of it."
"Nor is the rule concerning the stability of possession the less derived from human conventions, that it arises gradually, and acquires force by a slow progression, and by our repeated experience of the inconveniences of transgressing it."
"Some moralists account for all the sentiments of virtue by this sense."
"A ship, of which a considerable part has been changed by frequent reparations, is still considered as the same; nor does the difference of the materials hinder us from ascribing an identity to it."
"themselves is evident,"
"That, wherever the distinct idea any word stands for is not known and considered, and something not contained in the idea is not affirmed or denied of it, there our thoughts stick wholly in sounds, and are able to attain no real truth or falsehood."
"His words are these."
"He that, in a newly discovered country, shall see several sorts of animals and vegetables, unknown to him before, may have as true ideas of them, as of a horse or a stag; but can speak of them only by a description, till he shall either take the names the natives call them by, or give them names himself."
"Without this, men fill one another's heads with noise and sounds; but convey not thereby their thoughts, and lay not before one another their ideas, which is the end of discourse and language."
"But, There being many things wherein we have very imperfect notions, or none at all; and other things, of whose past, present, or future existence, by the natural use of our faculties, we can have no knowledge at all; these, as being beyond the discovery of our natural faculties, and are, when revealed,."
"As in reading other books a wise man will choose to fix his thoughts on the sense and apply it to use, rather than lay them out in grammatical remarks on the language; so, in perusing the volume of nature, it seems beneath the dignity of the mind to affect an exactness in reducing each particular phenomenon to general rules, or showing how it follows from them."
"The most vulgar philosophy informs us, that no external object can make itself known to the mind immediately, and without the interposition of an image or perception."
"We must now consider three phaenomena, which seem to be, in a manner, the reverse of these: Why a very great distance encreases our esteem and admiration for an object; Why such a distance in time encreases it more than that in space: And a distance in past time more than that in future."
"There has been an opinion very industriously propagated by certain philosophers, that morality is susceptible of demonstration; and though no one has ever been able to advance a single step in those demonstrations; yet it is taken for granted, that this science may be brought to an equal certainty with geometry or algebra."
"He that will consider the infinite power, wisdom, and goodness of the Creator of all things will find reason to think it was not all laid out upon so inconsiderable, mean, and impotent a creature as he will find man to be; who in all probability is one of the lowest of all intellectual beings."
"is all the light we have in many cases, and we receive from it a great part of the useful truths we have, with a convincing evidence."
"Now as it is by establishing the rule for the stability of possession, that this passion restrains itself; if that rule be very abstruse, and of difficult invention; society must be esteemed, in a manner, accidental, and the effect of many ages."
"And that such a quality or state as this may agree to an unthinking substance, I hope you will not deny."
"And the conquering people are not, I hope, to be slaves by conquest, and wear their laurels only to shew they are sacrifices to their leaders triumph."
"they are of no more account by her standard, than the wampompeke of the Americans to an European prince, or the silver money of Europe would have been formerly to an American."
"If this were done, (which nobody can refuse without great disingenuity,)"
"But all the rest, terminating purely in pain and pleasure, are, I think, to be found in all men."
"That term of unity is merely a fictitious denomination, which the mind may apply to any quantity of objects it collects together; nor can such an unity any more exist alone than number can, as being in reality a true number."
"The sole end of logic is to explain the principles and operations of our reasoning faculty, and the nature of our ideas: morals and criticism regard our tastes and sentiments: and politics consider men as united in society, and dependent on each other."
"but with certain gaps of rest between."
"Here at last the view always rests, when we are actuated by either of these passions; nor can we, in that situation of mind, ever lose sight of this object."
"No one, I believe, will deny the justness of this inference; nor is there any other means of evading it, than by denying that principle, on which it is founded."
"Shall the want of a nose, or a neck, make a monster, and put such issue out of the rank of men; the want of reason and understanding, not?"
"but the causes of the firm conception exhaust the whole subject, and nothing is left to produce any other effect."
"In both the fore mentioned cases, when either the legislative is changed, or the legislators act contrary to the end for which they were constituted; those who are guilty are guilty of rebellion: for if any one by force takes away the established legislative of any society, and the laws by them made, pursuant to their trust, he thereby takes away the umpirage, which every one had consented to, for a peaceable decision of all their controversies, and a bar to the state of war amongst them."
"If it were the design of my present undertaking to inquire into the natural causes and manner of perception, I should offer this as a reason why a privative cause might, in some cases at least, produce a positive idea; viz."
"Hence it comes that, at any rate, we desire to be rid of the present evil, which we are apt to think nothing absent can equal; because, under the present pain, we find not ourselves capable of any the least degree of happiness."
"As animals are but little susceptible either of the pleasures or pains of the imagination, they can judge of objects only by the sensible good or evil, which they produce, and from that must regulate their affections towards them."
"They have no just reason, says one: these complaints proceed only from their discontented, repining, anxious disposition."
"All other good, however great in reality or appearance, excites not a man's desires who looks not on it to make a part of that happiness wherewith he, in his present thoughts, can satisfy himself."
"And is not this directly contrary to the Mosaic account?"
"And a little after: Therefore, I think, we may suppose that it is in this that the species of brutes are discriminated from men, and it is that proper difference wherein they are wholly separated, and which at last widens to so wide a distance."
", whatever may happen in the world."
"We perceive only their constant conjunction; nor can we ever reason beyond it."
"The cause and effect must be contiguous in space and time."
"In like manner, whenever we survey the actions and characters of men, without any particular interest in them, the pleasure, or pain, which arises from the survey (with some minute differences) is, in the main, of the same kind, though perhaps there be a great diversity in the causes, from which it is derived."
"To which we may add, that being conscious of great partiality in our own favour, we are peculiarly pleased with any thing, that confirms the good opinion we have of ourselves, and are easily shocked with whatever opposes it."
"I desire therefore our mathematician to form, as accurately as possible, the ideas of a circle and a right line; and I then ask, if upon the conception of their contact he can conceive them as touching in a mathematical point, or if he must necessarily imagine them to concur for some space."
"I do not think I have fallen into my enemy's power, when I see him pass me in the streets with a sword by his side, while I am unprovided of any weapon."
"it represents, it cannot upon that account, or as referred to such a pattern, be false."
"For in this latter, which seems the easier of the two, and more within our comprehension, we are capable only of a comparative idea of smallness, which will always be less than any one"
"by something that is solid and extended, whose parts are separable and movable different ways; and by only the space that lies between the extremities of those solid coherent parts, and which is possessed by them, they confound very different ideas one with another; for I appeal to every man's own thoughts, whether the idea of space be not as distinct from that of solidity, as it is from the idea of scarlet colour?"
", I am content to yield this point, and acknowledge that heat and cold are only sensations existing in our minds."
"By such a progression as this, setting out from the place where it is, or any other place, it can proceed and pass beyond all those lengths, and find nothing to stop its going on, either in or without body."
"the efficacy of causes lie in the determination of the mind!"
"At first sight it may be thought, that this must resolve into some of the preceding titles of authority."
"If he can, then all free and voluntary contracts cease, and are void in the world; there needs nothing to dissolve them at any time, but power enough: and all the grants and promises of men in power are but mockery and collusion:"
"So that in denying the things perceived by sense an existence independent of a substance of support wherein they may exist, we detract nothing from the received opinion of their reality, and are guilty of no innovation in that respect."
"According to the principles of those who maintain an abstract rational difference betwixt moral good and evil, and a natural fitness and unfitness of things, it is not only supposed, that these relations, being eternal and immutable, are the same, when considered by every rational creature, but their effects are also supposed to be necessarily the same; and it is concluded they have no less, or rather a greater, influence in directing the will of the deity, than in governing the rational and virtuous of our own species."
"Number measures all Measurables."
"By is meant body without any particular shape or figure, there being no one shape or figure common to all animals, without covering, either of hair, or feathers, or scales, andc., nor yet naked:"
"The addition or diminution of a mountain would not be sufficient to produce a diversity in a planet:"
"But, according to your notions, what difference is there between real things, and chimeras formed by the imagination, or the visions of a dream since they are all equally in the mind?"
"When we attribute to a person a property in two objects, we do not always pass from the person to one object, and from that to the other related to it."
"The Roman Clatholicks are certainly the most zealous of any sect in the Christian world; and yet you'll find few among the more sensible people of that communion who do not blame the Gunpowder treason, and the massacre of St. Bartholomew, as cruel and barbarous, though projected or executed against those very people, whom without any scruple they condemn to eternal and infinite punishments."
"and pursued not this conversation much further: and as nothing ever made greater impression on me, than all the reasonings of that day, so I confess, that, upon a serious review of the whole, I cannot but think, that 's principles are more probable than 's; but that those of approach still nearer to the truth."
"What in them was science, is in us but opiniatrety;"
"And if so, what cause can be assigned of so widespread and predominant an error?"
"No one will deny, that a negligence in this particular is a fault; and as faults are nothing but smaller vices, and this fault can have no other origin than the uneasy sensation, which it excites in others, we may in this instance, seemingly so trivial, dearly discover the origin of the moral distinction of vice and virtue in other instances."
"The first question that occurs on this subject is always, whether the object shall exist or not:"
"These the understanding, in its view of them, considers all as distinct positive ideas, without taking notice of the causes that produce them: which is an inquiry not belonging to the idea, as it is in the understanding, but to the nature of the things existing without us."
"Those, at least, who do at any time can never be convinced that their thoughts are sometimes for four hours busy without their knowing of it; and if they are taken in the very act, waked in the middle of that sleeping contemplation, can give no manner of account of it."
"In the former case, our knowledge is the consequence of the existence of things, producing ideas in our minds by our senses: in the latter, knowledge is the consequence of the ideas (be they what they will) that are in our minds, producing there general certain propositions."
"he can have a right to what that is once joined to, at least where there is enough, and as good, left in common for others."
"Thus the mind has two faculties conversant (about truth and falsehood):"
"Our judgments concerning cause and effect are derived from habit and experience; and when we have been accustomed to see one object united to another, our imagination passes from the first to the second, by a natural transition, which precedes reflection, and which cannot be prevented by it."
"And are they those which are the first in children, and antecedent to all acquired ones?"
"How such principles come to be held."
"But it is intelligible and consistent to say, that objects exist distinct and independent, without any common simple substance or subject of inhesion."
"But before they entered upon these disputes, methinks it would not have been improper to have examined what idea we have of that efficacy, which is the subject of the controversy."
"Had this happened to him by an over dose of honey when a child, all the same effects would have followed; but the cause would have been mistaken, and the antipathy counted natural."
"But as all reasoning concerning matters of fact arises only from custom, and custom can only be the effect of repeated perceptions, the extending of custom and reasoning beyond the perceptions can never be the direct and natural effect of the constant repetition and connexion, but must arise from the co operation of some other principles."
"If not, the addition of other perceptions can never give you that notion."
"Thirdly, Ideas of Substances may be false in reference to existing things."
"Nature, we find, even from our limited experience, possesses an infinite number of springs and principles, which incessantly discover themselves on every change of her position and situation."
"But, say you, it is the unknown occasion, at the presence of which ideas are excited in us by the will of God."
"Such corrections are common with regard to all the senses; and indeed it were impossible we could ever make use of language, or communicate our sentiments to one another, did we not correct the momentary appearances of things, and overlook our present situation."
"In all these cases we shall find an imperfection in words; which I shall more at large explain, in their particular application to our several sorts of ideas: for if we examine them, we shall find that the and the ."
"Bid your servant meet you at such a time in such a place, and he shall never stay to deliberate on the meaning of those words; in conceiving that particular time and place, or the motion by which he is to get thither, he finds not the least difficulty."
"Whereby it appears that this primary and supposed obvious quality of body will be found, when examined, to be as incomprehensible as anything belonging to our minds, and a solid extended substance as hard to be conceived as a thinking"
"But, notwithstanding that this is the constant language of Scripture, yet we have I know not what aversion from believing that God concerns Himself so nearly in our affairs."
"I believe I may spare myself the trouble of insisting on so obvious a subject, and may proceed, without farther preparation, to examine after what manner such notions arise from education, from the voluntary conventions of men, and from the interest of society."
"The reason, why we ascribe a place to them, shall be: considered afterwards."
"Because these simple ideas that co exist, and are united in the same subject, being very numerous, and having all an equal right to go into the complex specific idea which the specific name is to stand for, men, though they propose to themselves the very same subject to consider, yet frame very different ideas about it; and so the name they use for it unavoidably comes to have, in several men, very different significations."
"Though yet concerning most words used in discourses, equally argumentative and controversial, there is this more to be complained of, which is the worst sort of trifling, and which sets us yet further from the certainty of knowledge we hope to attain by them, or find in them; viz."
"Words are often used without Signification, and Why."
"But when men have observed, that though the rules of justice be sufficient to maintain any society, yet it is impossible for them, of themselves, to observe those rules, in large and polished societies; they establish government, as a new invention to attain their ends, and preserve the old, or procure new advantages, by a more strict execution of justice."
"But the case is quite contrary."
"That this opinion is false will admit of an easy proof."
"This argument seems just, as far as we can understand it; and it is plain nothing is required, but a change in the terms, to apply the same argument to our extended perceptions, and the simple essence of the soul; the ideas of objects and perceptions being in every respect the same, only attended with the supposition of a difference, that is unknown and incomprehensible."
"Because they being the workmanship of the understanding, pursuing only its own ends, and the conveniency of expressing in short those ideas it would make known to another, it does with great liberty unite often into one abstract idea things that, in their nature, have no coherence; and so under one term bundle together a great variety of compounded and decompounded ideas."
"A painter, who intended to represent a passion or emotion of any kind, would endeavour to get a sight of a person actuated by a like emotion, in order to enliven his ideas, and give them a force and vivacity superior to what is found in those, which are mere fictions of the imagination."
"To act consistently, you must either admit Matter or reject Spirit."
"The power of calling parliaments in England, as to precise time, place, and duration, is certainly a prerogative of the king, but still with this trust, that it shall be made use of for the good of the nation, as the exigencies of the times, and variety of occasions, shall require: for it being impossible to foresee which should always be the fittest place for them to assemble in, and"
"My sentiments, replied are not worth being made a mystery of; and therefore, without any ceremony, I shall deliver what occurs to me with regard to the present subject."
"Those men who frame general rules from the phenomena and afterwards derive the phenomena from those rules, seem to consider signs rather than causes."
"What farther contributes to encrease their solidity, is the interest of our reputation, after the opinion, that a merit or demerit attends justice or injustice, is once firmly established among mankind."
"This evasion therefore of general assent when men come to the use of reason, failing as it does, and leaving no difference between those supposed innate and other truths that are afterwards acquired and learnt, men have endeavoured to secure an universal assent to those they call maxims, by saying, they are generally assented to as soon as proposed, and the terms they are proposed in understood: seeing all men, even children, as soon as they hear and understand the terms, assent to these propositions, they think it is sufficient to prove them innate."
"Note: Insomuch that I should not think it necessary to spend more time in exposing its absurdity."
"Now for what reason should the same passion of pity produce love to the person, who suffers the misfortune, and hatred to the person, who causes it; unless it be because in the latter case the author bears a relation only to the misfortune;"
"The exact similarity of the cases gives us a perfect assurance of a similar event; and a stronger evidence is never desired nor sought after."
"It will here be worth our observation, that the past experience, on which all our judgments concerning cause and effect depend, may operate on our mind in such an insensible manner as never to be taken notice of, and may even in some measure be unknown to us."
"In this alone it consists."
"In order to set ourselves at ease in this particular, we contrive a new hypothesis, which seems to comprehend both these principles of reason and imagination."
"Is it a rule for the whole?"
"If he ever carries his speculations further than this necessity constrains him, and philosophises either on natural or moral subjects, he is allured by a certain pleasure and satisfaction which he finds in employing himself after that manner."
"This great source of most of the ideas we have, depending wholly upon our senses, and derived by them to the understanding, I call."
"Of these there is a great variety, much exceeding the number of particles that most languages have to express them by: and therefore it is not to be wondered that most of these particles have divers and sometimes almost opposite significations."
"when I frame an idea of the legs, arms, and body of a man, and join to this a horse's head and neck, I do not make a false idea of anything; because it represents nothing without me."
"The conclusion from this is obvious in favour of the foregoing system."
"Mathematicians abstracting their thoughts from names, and accustoming themselves to set before their minds the ideas themselves that they would consider, and not sounds instead of them, have avoided thereby a great part of that perplexity, puddering, and confusion, which has so much hindered men's progress in other parts of knowledge."
"There being in us a great many uneasinesses, always soliciting and ready to determine the will, it is natural, as I have said, that the greatest and most pressing should determine the will to the next action; and so it does for the most part, but not always."
"The conception always precedes the understanding; and where the one is obscure, the other is uncertain; where the one fails, the other must fail also."
"These questions are decisive, and must not be eluded."
"That action of the imagination, by which we consider the uninterrupted and invariable object, and that by which we reflect on the succession of related objects, are almost the same to the feeling, nor is there much more effort of thought required in the latter case than in the former."
"Thus the natural fathers of families, by an insensible change, became the politic monarchs of them too: and as they chanced to live long, and leave able and worthy heirs, for several successions, or otherwise; so they laid the foundations of hereditary, or elective kingdoms, under several constitutions and manners, according as chance, contrivance, or occasions happened to mould them."
"Because the Connexion between simple Ideas in substances is for the most part unknown."
"And therefore those, who after Saul's being solemnly chosen and saluted king by the tribes at Mispah, were unwilling to have him their king, made no other objection"
"One thing I doubt not but will seem very strange in this doctrine, which is, that from what has been said it will follow, that each abstract idea, with a name to it, makes a distinct species."
"And then he knows the truth of that proposition upon the same ground and by the same means, that he knew before that a rod and a cherry are not the same thing; and upon the same ground also that he may come to know afterwards 'That it is impossible for the same thing to be and not to be,' as shall be more fully shown hereafter."
"He, that shall consider the distinct rise and extent, and the different ends of these several powers, will plainly see, that paternal power comes as far short of that of the magistrate, as despotical exceeds it; and that absolutedominion, however placed, is so far from being one kind of civil society, that it is as inconsistent with it, as slavery is with property."
"But though this be strictly true in a just and philosophical way of thinking, it is certain it is not the philosophy of our passions; but that many things operate upon them by means of the idea and supposition of power, independent of its actual exercise."
"whether a profound genius, or a sure judgment?"
"Are they therefore, upon that account, immoral?"
"But not by their Motion, but periodical Appearances."
"But upon farther examination we shall easily discover our mistake."
"Hence the reality of Mathematical Knowledge"
"The same principle cannot be both the cause and effect of another; and this is, perhaps, the only proposition concerning that relation, which is either intuitively or demonstratively certain."
"any difficulty attend this system concerning the laws of nature and nations, it will be with regard to the universal approbation or blame, which follows their observance or transgression, and which some may not think sufficiently explained from the general interests of society."
"And one who thinks the objects of sense exist without the mind will perhaps in virtue thereof be brought to admit that a line but an inch long may contain innumerable parts really existing, though too small to be discerned."
"Till time has by disuse separated the sense of that enjoyment and its loss, from the idea of the child returning to her memory, all representations, though ever so reasonable, are in vain; and therefore some in whom the union between these ideas is never dissolved, spend their lives in mourning, and carry an incurable sorrow to their graves."
"It seems to be nothing more than a privation of both pain and pleasure."
"Over those then that joined with him in the war, and over those of the subdued country that opposed him not, and the posterity even of those that did, the conqueror, even in a just war, hath, by his conquest, no right ofdominion: they are free from any subjection to him, and if their former government be dissolved, they are at liberty to begin and erect another to themselves."
"Thus upon a general view of the subject, there appear to be two questions of importance, which we may venture to recommend to the consideration of philosophers, Whether there be any thing to distinguish belief from the simple conception beside the feeling of sentiment?"
"To understand this the better, it is fit to consider, that every man, when he at first incorporates himself into any commonwealth, he, by his uniting himself thereunto, annexed also, and submits to the community, those possessions, which he has, or shall acquire, that do not already belong to any other government: for it would be a direct contradiction, for any one to enter into society with others for the securing and regulating of property; and yet to suppose his land, whose property is to be regulated by the laws of the society, should be exempt from the jurisdiction of that government, to which he himself, the proprietor of the land, is a subject."
"If ideas be particular in their nature, and at the same time finite in their number, it is only by custom they can become general in their representation, and contain an infinite number of other ideas under them."
"If there be any objections to this hypothesis, A we shall find, uponexamination, that these objections, when taken in a properlight, will serve to confirm it."
"Beside the effect of design; each act of the mind, being separate and independent, has a separate influence, and joins not its force with that of its fellows."
"Whereas any constant periodical appearance, or alteration of ideas, in seemingly equidistant spaces of duration, if constant and universally observable, would have as well distinguished the intervals of time, as those that have been made use of."
"But since the government has a direct jurisdiction only over the land, and reaches the possessor of it, (before he has actually incorporated himself in the society)"
"When the understanding is once stored with these simple ideas, it has the power to repeat, compare, and unite them, even to an almost infinite variety, and so can make at pleasure new complex ideas."
"The economy of final causes?"
"In order to prepare the mind of the reader for the easier conceiving what follows, it is proper to premise somewhat, by way of Introduction, concerning the nature and abuse of Language."
"Unless the mind had a distinct perception of different objects and their qualities, it would be capable of very little knowledge, though the bodies that affect us were as busy about us as they are now, and the mind were continually employed in thinking."
"Two colours, that are of the same kind, may yet be of different shades, and in that respect admit of comparison."
"Indeed, if we take a view of the several phenomena, and compare them together, we may observe some likeness and conformity between them."
"Resemblance, then, has the same or a parallel influence with experience; and as the only immediate effect of experience is to associate our ideas together, it follows, that all belief arises from the association of ideas, according to my hypothesis."
"If this were wholly separated from all our outward sensations, and inward thoughts, we should have no reason to prefer one thought or action to another; negligence to attention, or motion to rest."
"Besides, that punctum stans, if it signify anything, being not quantum, finite or infinite cannot belong to it."
"Pride and humility, being once raised, immediately turn our attention to ourself, and regard that as their ultimate and final object; but there is something farther requisite in order to raise them: Something, which is peculiar to one of the passions, and produces not both in the very same degree."
"The contrary shown in complex ideas, by instances of a Statue and Rainbow."
"Whatever exists must have a cause or reason of its existence; it being absolutely impossible for any thing to produce itself, or be the cause of its own existence."
"But yet it is to be observed, that tho' oaths of allegiance and fealty are taken to him, it is not to him as supreme legislator, but as supreme executor of the law, made by a joint power of him with others; allegiance being nothing but an obedience according to law, which when he violates, he has no right to obedience, nor can claim it otherwise than as the public person vested with the power of the law, and so is to be considered as the image, phantom, or representative of the commonwealth, acted by the will of the society, declared in its laws; and thus he has no will, no power, but that of the law."
"For if I mistake not, it follows from what I have said, that the question itself is altogether improper; and it is as insignificant to ask whether man's be free, as to ask whether his sleep be swift, or his virtue square:"
"Polyphemus's den gives us a perfect pattern of such a peace, and such a government, wherein Ulysses and his companions had nothing to do, but quietly to suffer themselves to be devoured."
"This I am satisfyed with, and am willing to rest the controversy merely upon these ideas."
"Their persons, therefore, their interests, their passions, their pains and pleasures must strike upon us in a lively manner, and produce an emotion similar to the original one; since a lively idea is easily converted into an impression."
"I see evidently, that when any man imposes on himself general inflexible rules in his conduct with others, he considers certain objects as their property, which he supposes to be sacred and inviolable."
"Thirdly, This very circumstance of the diminution of sympathy by the separation of relations is worthy of our attention."
"mediately by sense: that is, when, from a frequently perceived connexion, the immediate perception of ideas by one sense to the mind others, perhaps belonging to another sense, which are wont to be connected with them."
"I have found a Deity; and here I stop my inquiry."
"Why do we say this is a horse, and that a mule; this is an animal, that an herb?"
"And have they not then the same appearance of being distant?"
"But a man, not knowing wherein that real essence consists, the connexion in his mind of malleableness is not truly with an essence he knows not, but only with the sound gold he puts for it."
"But when to this natural difficulty in every country, there shall be added different countries and remote ages, wherein the speakers and writers had very different notions, tempers, customs, ornaments, and figures of speech, andc."
"If this were not so, there could be no room for those indifferent and visibly trifling actions, to which our wills are so often determined, and wherein we voluntarily waste so much of our lives; which remissness could by no means consist with a constant determination of will or desire to the greatest apparent good."
"Judgment to be the separating or uniting of different ideas:"
"The smallest attention will supply us with more than are requisite."
"Having thus found in every probability, beside the original uncertainty inherent in the subject, a new uncertainty derived from the weakness of that faculty, which judges, and having adjusted these two together, we are obliged by our reason to add a new doubt derived from the possibility of error in the estimation we make of the truth and fidelity of our faculties."
"No Ideas in our complex ideas of Spirits, but those got from Sensation or Reflection."
"And in an arithmetical operation, where both the truth and the assurance are of the same nature, as in the most profound algebraical problem, the pleasure is very inconsiderable"
"The pain, which we receive from its tendency to the prejudice of society, is over powered by a stronger and more immediate sympathy."
"There is nothing in it."
"And thus these maxims, getting the name of principles, beyond which men in dispute could not retreat, were by mistake taken to be the originals and sources from whence"
"It is only by experience that he infers the greatness of the object from some peculiar qualities of the image; and this inference of the judgment he confounds with sensation, as is common on other occasions."
"It is true, as I have said, they sometimes serve in argumentation to stop a wrangler's mouth, by showing the absurdity of what he saith, and by exposing him to the shame of contradicting what all the world knows, and he himself cannot but own to be true."
"This perceiving, active being is what I call or."
"To illustrate this hypothesis we may compare it to that, by which I have already explained the belief attending the judgments, which we form from causation."
"I pretend not to treat of them in their full latitude."
"I cannot conceive how such trivial qualities of the fancy, conducted by such false suppositions, can ever lead to any solid and rational system."
"I think I shall not need to remark here that, though power and action make the greatest part of mixed modes, marked by names, and familiar in the minds and mouths of men, yet other simple ideas, and their several combinations, are not excluded: much less, I think, will it be necessary for me to enumerate all the mixed modes which have been settled, with names to them."
"There is however one contradictory phaenomenon, which may prove, that it is not absolutely impossible for ideas to go before their correspondent impressions."
"And he, I think, very much magnifies to himself the capacity of his own understanding, who persuades himself that he can extend his thoughts further than God exists, or imagine any expansion where He is not."
"How men commonly come by their Principles."
"Though I have said above, Chap."
"that, taking all together, a very small portion of them does supply any real benefit to mankind, otherwise than by being an innocent diversion and amusement"
"All that we know is, that bodies do each singly possess its proper portion of it, according to the extent of solid parts; and thereby exclude all other bodies from having any share in that particular portion of space, whilst it remains there."
"But this is no derogation to their truth and certainty; no more than it is to the truth or certainty of the three angles of a triangle being equal to two right ones because it is not so evident as 'the whole is bigger than a part,' nor so apt to be assented to at first hearing."
", we add others to them, as often as we will."
"My wife had a share in my estate; that neither could I forfeit."
"the name of a sort stands for; without which no particular thing can be reckoned of that sort, nor be entitled to that name."
"though they shew no sense of shame, nor seem in the least conscious of their folly."
"Have you any notion of self or substance?"
"In the sciences, every one has so much as he really knows and comprehends."
"if we would; there being a great many more of them belonging to most of the senses than we have names for."
"the maxims treated of in the foregoing chapter be of that use to real knowledge as is generally supposed, I leave to be considered."
"Consult common experience:"
"only as he dwells upon, and enjoys that; the obligation any one is under, by virtue of such enjoyment, to submit to the government, begins and ends with the enjoyment; so that whenever the owner, who has given nothing but such a tacit consent to the government, will, by donation, sale, or otherwise, quit the said possession, he is at liberty to go and incorporate himself into any other commonwealth; or to agree with others to begin a new one, in vacuis locis, in any part of the world, they can find free and unpossessed: whereas he, that has once, by actual agreement, and any express declaration, given his consent to be of any commonwealth, is perpetually and indispensably obliged to be, and remain unalterably a subject to it, and can never be again in the liberty of the state of nature; unless, by any calamity, the government he was under comes to be dissolved; or else by some public act cuts him off from being any longer a member of it."
"This at least I think, that the showing what words are, and what are not, capable of definitions, and wherein consists a good definition, is not wholly besides our present purpose; and perhaps will afford so much light to the nature of these signs and our ideas, as to deserve a more particular consideration."
"Contiguity and resemblance have an effect much inferior to causation; but still have some effect, and augment the conviction of any opinion, and the vivacity of any conception."
"It is evident, that the idea, or rather impression of ourselves is always intimately present with us, and that our consciousness gives us so lively a conception of our own person, that it is not possible to imagine, that any thing can in this particular go beyond it."
"As there is no discoverable connexion between fixedness and the colour, weight, and other simple ideas of that nominal essence of gold; so, if we make our complex idea of gold, a body yellow, fusable, ductile, weighty, and fixed, we shall be at the same uncertainty concerning solubility in and for the same reason."
"In which incomplete ideas, we are very apt to impose on ourselves, and wrangle with others, especially where they have particular and familiar names."
"Why a privative cause in nature may occasion a positive idea."
"This seems to me the first and most general, as well as natural division of the objects of our understanding."
"It is also evident, that these parts are not co existent: For that quality of the co existence of parts belongs to extension, and is what distinguishes it from duration."
"bringing things very remote, and independent on one another, into one view, the better to contemplate and discourse on them, united into one conception, and signified by one name."
"In answer to this, I desire it may be considered that in a we do oft perceive things as existing at a great distance off,"
"This connexion or constant conjunction sufficiently proves the one part to be the cause of the other."
"For he that adds only to and so proceeds, shall as soon come to the end of all addition, as he that adds to."
"But in it is not so."
"Nothing being so beautiful to the eye as truth is to the mind; nothing so deformed and irreconcilable to the understanding as a lie."
"So that, however we consider motion, and its communication, either from body or spirit, the idea which belongs to spirit is at least as clear as that which belongs to body."
"Besides all which it hath this peculiar to itself; that it makes that material world serve to no purpose."
"Fifthly, when they are names of fantastical imaginations."
"But though resemblance be necessary to all philosophical relation, it does not follow, that it always produces a connexion or association of ideas."
"Here, therefore, promises come naturally in play, and are often required for fuller satisfaction and security."
"Why an orderly system may not be spun from the belly as well as from the brain, it will be difficult for him to give a satisfactory reason."
"The laws that men generally refer their actions to, to judge of their rectitude or obliquity, seem to me to be these three:."
"Thus if instead of saying, that in war the weaker have always recourse to negotiation, we should say, that they have always recourse to conquest, the custom, which we have acquired of attributing certain relations to ideas, still follows the words, and makes us immediately perceive the absurdity of that proposition; in the same manner as one particular idea may serve us in reasoning concerning other ideas, however different from it in several circumstances."
"We never can conceive any thing but perceptions, and therefore must make every thing resemble them."
"There are therefore three ways whereby we get these complex ideas of mixed modes: By experience and of things themselves: thus, by seeing two men mixed wrestle or fence, we get the idea of wrestling or fencing."
"is easy to observe, that the passions, both direct and indirect, are founded on pain and pleasure, and that in order to produce an affection of any kind, it is only requisite to present some good or evil."
"After you have brought it to this situation, diminish the grief, after the same manner that you encreased it; by diminishing the probability on that side, and you'll see the passion clear every moment, until it changes insensibly into hope; which again runs, after the same manner, by slow degrees, into joy, as you encrease"
"I have executed a great part of my present design by a state of the question, which appears to me so free from ambiguity and obscurity."
"How great a friend material substance has been to Atheists in all ages were needless to relate."
"because the female is capable of conceiving, and de facto is commonly with child again, and brings forth too a new birth, long before the former is out of a dependency for support on his parents help, and able to shift for himself, and has all the assistance is due to him from his parents: whereby the father, who is bound to take care for those he hath begot, is under an obligation to continue in conjugal society with the same woman longer than other creatures, whose young being able to subsist of themselves, before the time of procreation returns again, the conjugal bond dissolves of itself, and they are at liberty, till Hymen at his usual anniversary season summons them again to chuse new mates."
"The difference is only about a name."
"And this is a relation, without which no philosophical relation can exist; since no objects will admit of comparison, but what have some degree of resemblance."
"For certainty being but the perception of the agreement or disagreement of our ideas, and demonstration nothing but the perception of such agreement, by the intervention of other ideas or mediums; our moral ideas, as well as mathematical, being archetypes themselves, and so adequate and complete ideas; all the agreement or disagreement which we shall find in them will produce real knowledge, as well as in mathematical figures."
"If they say the man thinks always, but is not always conscious of it, they may as well say his body is extended without having parts."
"Whether we consider the body as a part of ourselves, or assent to those philosophers, who regard it as something external, it must still be allowed to be near enough connected with us to form one of these double relations, which I have asserted to be necessary to the causes of pride and humility."
"First, because, though the cause of the establishment of these laws had been a regard for the public good, as much as the public good is their natural tendency, they would still have been artificial, as being purposely contrived and directed to a certain end."
"may be esteemed a second species of relation."
"Is it to comply with a ridiculous sceptical humour of making everything nonsense and unintelligible?"
"Or, are we to imagine impressions made on a thing void of all solidity?"
"But this, I say, is more from our custom of using them, and the establishment they have got in our minds by our often thinking of them, than from the different evidence of the things."
"Since then though the knowledge of a God be the most natural discovery of human reason, yet the idea of him is not innate, as I think is evident from what has been said"
"Nor is it at all more possible, that he who wants leisure, books, and languages, and the opportunity of conversing with variety of men, should be in a condition to collect those testimonies and observations which are in being, and are necessary to make out many, nay most, of the propositions that, in the societies of men, are judged of the greatest moment; or to find out grounds of assurance so great as the belief of the points he would build on them is thought necessary."
"Answer me, Philonous."
"Every different object appears to them entirely distinct and separate; and they perceive, that it is not from a view of the nature and qualities of objects we infer one from another, but only when in several instances we observe them to have been constantly conjoined."
"I shall conclude this subject with two reflections, which may deserve our attention."
"Since therefore we ascribe a power of performing an action to every one, who has no very powerful motive to forbear it, and refuse it to such as have; it may justly be concluded, that power has always a reference to its exercise, either actual or probable, and that we consider a person as endowed with any ability when we find from past experience, that it is probable, or at least possible he may exert it."
"He builds on the most abstract general ideas, which I entirely disclaim."
"Afterwards, the mind proceeding further, abstracts them, and by degrees learns the use of general names."
"In order to this we must reflect on certain properties of human nature, which though they have a mighty influence on every operation both of the understanding and passions, are not commonly much insisted on by philosophers."
"It is impossible for us to carry on our inferences and the only thing, that can stop them, is an impression of the memory or senses, beyond which there is no room for doubt or enquiry."
"This space, considered barely in length between any two beings, without considering anything else between them, is called if considered in length, breadth, and thickness"
"I answer, I do it for two reasons: first, because the term in contra distinction to is generally supposed to denote somewhat existing without the mind; secondly, because has a more comprehensive signification than including or thinking things as well as."
"The reader must only observe, that all the subjects I have there planned out to myself, are not treated of in these two volumes."
", I remove first one relation; then another; and find, that each removal destroys the passion, and leaves the object perfectly indifferent."
"There is something weak and imperfect amidst all that seeming vehemence of thought and sentiment, which attends the fictions of poetry."
"Perhaps these causes are seconded by the influence of relation, or the association of ideas, by which we are naturally directed to consider the son after the parent's decease, and ascribe to him a title to his father's possessions."
"A remarkable passage to this purpose, out of the voyage of Baumgarten, which is a book not every day to be met with, I shall set down at large, in the language it is published in."
"Recapitulation Something from Eternity."
"Duration is as a Line, Expansion as a Solid."
"Not the substantial Form, which know Not."
"So far from being able by our senses merely to determine this question, we must have recourse to the most profound metaphysics to give a satisfactory answer to it; and in common life it is evident these ideas of self and person are never very fixed nor determinate."
"Nay, I shall go farther, and assert, that government, upon its first establishment, would naturally be supposed."
"Causes of Obscurity."
"And if the opinions and persuasions of others, whom we know and think well of, be a ground of assent, men have reason to be Heathens in Japan, Mahometans in Turkey, Papists in Spain, Protestants in England, and Lutherans in Sweden."
"It is no wonder that they made no distinction betwixt minority and full age; nor looked after one and twenty, or any other age that might make them the free disposers of themselves and fortunes, when they could have no desire to be out of their pupilage: the government they had been under, during it, continued still to be more their protection than restraint; and they could no where find a greater security to their peace, liberties, and fortunes, than in the rule of a father."
"Most people will readily allow, that the useful qualities of the mind are virtuous, because of their utility."
"But the names of mixed modes, which comprehend a great number of simple ideas, are commonly of a very doubtful and undetermined meaning, as has been shown."
"Because, being capable of no other simple ideas, belonging to anything but body, but those which by reflection we receive from the operation of our own minds, we can attribute to spirits no other but what we receive from thence: and all the difference we can put between them, in our contemplation of spirits, is only in the several extents and degrees of their knowledge, power, duration, happiness, andc."
"We likewise call to mind their constant conjunction in all past instances."
"So that something distinct from, and exclusive of, extension is supposed to be the of extension?"
"Yet, after all, universal consent (were there any in moral principles) to truths, the knowledge whereof may be attained otherwise, would scarce prove them to be innate; which is all I contend for."
"The characters of Caesar and Cato, as drawn by Sallust, are both of them virtuous, in the strictest sense of the word; but in a different way: Nor are the sentiments entirely the same, which arise from them."
"But as the same word is supposed to have been frequently applied to other individuals, that are different in many respects from that idea, which is immediately present to the mind; the word not being able to revive the idea of all these individuals, but only touches the soul, if I may be allowed so to speak, and revives that custom, which we have acquired by surveying them."
"Thus, by adding several units together, we make the idea of a dozen; and putting together the repeated ideas of several perches, we frame that of a furlong."
"For this reason I shall here confine myself to those other impressions, which I have called secondary and reflective, as arising either from the original impressions, or from their ideas."
"We must, however, beware not to draw such a conclusion from a few experiments."
"It is not every matter of fact, of which we have a curiosity to be informed; neither are they such only as we have an interest to know."
"The mind naturally runs on with any train of action, which it has begun; nor do we commonly make any scruple concerning our duty, after the first action of any kind, which we perform."
"I see no reason, therefore, to believe that the soul thinks before the senses have furnished it with ideas to think on; and as those are increased and retained, so it comes, by exercise, to improve its faculty of thinking in the several parts of it; as well as, afterwards, by compounding those ideas, and reflecting on its own operations, it increases its stock, as well as facility in remembering, imagining, reasoning, and other modes of thinking."
"He that shall but observe what a great variety of alterations"
"And yet, if they will not allow matter as matter, that is, every particle of matter, to be as well cogitative as extended, they will have as hard a task to make out to their own reasons a cogitative being out of incogitative particles, as an extended being out of unextended parts, if I may so speak."
"It may indeed be objected, that such a remote sympathy is a very slight foundation for a passion, and that so much industry and application, as we frequently observe in philosophers, can never be derived from so inconsiderable an original."
"how often excessive?"
"The passage betwixt related ideas is, therefore, so smooth and easy, that it produces little alteration on the mind, and seems like the continuation of the same action; and as the continuation of the same action is an effect of the continued view of the same object, it is for this reason we attribute sameness to every succession of related objects."
"Hence arise our common measures of duty, in preferring the one to the other."
"So that he that by conquest has a right over a man's person to destroy him if he pleases, has not thereby a right over his estate to possess and enjoy it: for it is the brutal force the aggressor has used, that gives his adversary a right to take away his life, and destroy him if he pleases, as a noxious creature; but it is damage sustained that alone gives him title to another man's goods:"
"I would fain meet with the man who, when he came to the use of reason, or at any other time, remembered any of them; and to whom, after he was born, they were never new."
"As it is from the disposition of visible and tangible objects we receive the idea of space, so from the succession of ideas and impressions we form the idea of time, nor is it possible for time alone ever to make its appearance, or be taken notice of by the mind."
"It will still be possible for us, at any time, to conceive the non existence of what we formerly conceived to exist; nor can the mind ever lie under a necessity of supposing any object to remain always in being; in the same manner as we lie under a necessity of always conceiving twice two to be four."
"Thus men become professors of, and combatants for, those opinions they were never convinced of nor proselytes to; no, nor ever had so much as floating in their heads: and though one cannot say there are fewer improbable or erroneous opinions in the world than there are, yet this is certain; there are fewer that actually assent to them, and mistake them for truths, than is imagined."
"Such designs as these (says he) when any king harbours in his thoughts and seriously promotes, he immediately gives up all care and thought of the commonwealth; so that, according to him, the neglect of the public good is to be taken as an evidence of such design, or at least for a sufficient cause of resistance."
"Our actions are more voluntary than our judgments; but we have not more liberty in the one than in the other."
"The greater degree there is of these blameable qualities, the more vicious they become, and"
"Infinite Divisibility."
"Here, therefore, we feign a new act of the mind, which we call the willing an obligation; and on this we suppose the morality to depend."
"By the law of our nature, we are affected upon every alteration in the nervous parts of our sensible body; which sensible body, rightly considered, is nothing but a complexion of such qualities or ideas as have no existence distinct from being perceived by a mind."
"but what carries with it some reflection on, and imitation of, that number or extent of the acts or objects of God's power, wisdom, and goodness, which can never be supposed so great, or so many, which these attributes will not always surmount and exceed, let us multiply them in our thoughts as far as we can, with all the infinity of endless number."
"First, by keeping the idea which is brought into it, for some time actually in view, which is called."
"The parts, into which the ideas of space and time resolve themselves, become at last indivisible; and these indivisible parts, being nothing in themselves, are inconceivable when not filled with something real and existent."
"A less evil may then be chosen, in order to avoid a greater; inconveniences be submitted to, in order to reach a desirable end; and in a word, benevolence, regulated by wisdom, and limited by necessity, may produce just such a world as the present."
"not in early editions. ."
"the mind cannot make one to itself, nor have any idea which does not wholly consist of them."
"being abstract complex ideas, made arbitrarily by the mind, it is convenient, if not necessary, to know the names, before one endeavour to frame these complex ideas: unless a man will fill his head with a company of abstract complex ideas, which, others having no names for, he has nothing to do with, but to lay by and forget again."
"He has nodominion over his son's property, or actions; nor any right, that his will should prescribe to his son's in all things; however it may become his son in many things, not very inconvenient to him and his family, to pay a deference to it."
"I shall begin with observing, that there is an evident absurdity in pretending to demonstrate a matter of fact, or to prove it by any arguments a priori."
"Why their Names are usually got before their Ideas."
"And is it from the knowledge of this principle that it concludes, that wormwood rubbed on the nipple hath not the same taste that it used to receive from thence?"
"Whatever God hath revealed is certainly true: no doubt can be made of it."
"understand political power right, and derive it from its original, we must consider, what state all men are naturally in, and that is, a state of perfect freedom to order their actions, and dispose of their possessions and persons, as they think fit, within the bounds of the law of nature, without asking leave, or depending upon the will of any other man."
"Intellectual habits and defects this way contracted, are not less frequent and powerful, though less observed."
"Agents that have no thought, no volition at all, are in everything."
"having been the common received opinion amongst men of letters, that were the foundation of all knowledge; and that the sciences were each of them built upon certain from whence"
"what the nature of the thing, and the end of government required: which ever of those it was that at first put the rule into the hands of a single person, certain it is no body was intrusted with it"
"Now since the fancy finds the same facility in passing from the lesser to the greater, as from remote to contiguous, why does not this easy transition of ideas assist the transition of passions in the former case, as well as in the latter?"
"We are not only better pleased with the approbation of a wise man than with that of a fool, but receive an additional satisfaction from the former, when it is obtained after a long and intimate acquaintance."
"These ideas themselves, being archetypes, cannot differ from their archetypes, and so cannot be chimerical, unless any one will jumble together in them inconsistent ideas."
"But this cannot be said of the notion of Spirit."
"For, let a man make to himself the idea of a figure with three angles, whereof one is a right one, and call it, if he please, or or anything else; the properties of, and demonstrations about that idea will be the same as if he called it a rectangular triangle."
"The forbearance of that action, consequent to such order or command of the mind, is called."
"The fourth is the using of proofs drawn from any of the foundations of knowledge or probability."
"my desire therefore to be loved of my equals in nature as much as possible may be, imposeth upon me a natural duty of bearing to them ward fully the like affection; from which relation of equality between ourselves and them that are as ourselves, what several rules and canons natural reason hath drawn, for direction of life, no man is ignorant, Eccl."
"Whether these parts be calld or they cannot be inferior to those minute parts we conceive; and therefore cannot form a less extension by their conjunction."
"and what goes before it."
"For what does he mean by production?"
"As belief is almost absolutely requisite to the exciting our passions, so the passions in their turn are very favourable to belief; and not only such facts as convey agreeable emotions, but very often such as give pain, do upon that account become more readily the objects of faith and opinion."
"For all the inquiries we can make concerning any of our ideas, all that we know or can affirm concerning any of them, is, That it is, or is not, the same with some other; that it does or does not always co exist with some other idea in the same subject; that it has this or that relation with some other idea; or that it has a real existence without the mind."
"We shall now proceed to enquire how we may reduce these principles to a lesser number, and find among the causes something common, on which their influence depends."
"Though it must be confessed this method of arguing does not so much prove that there is no extension or colour in an outward object, as that we do not know by which is the extension or colour of the object."
"Having found, that neither an object without any relation of ideas or impressions, nor an object, that has only one relation, can ever cause pride or humility, love or hatred; reason alone may convince us, without any farther experiment, that whatever has a double relation must necessarily excite these passions; since it is evident they must have some cause."
"The question then is, Which of these are real, and which barely imaginary combinations?"
"But where the difference is so great as to produce in the mind clearly distinct ideas, whose differences can be perfectly retained, there these ideas or colours,"
"This is sometimes the fault of the language itself, which has not in it a sound yet applied to such a signification; and sometimes the fault of the man, who has not yet learned the name for that idea he would show another."
"I believe most people, at first sight, will be inclined to ascribe our esteem of the rich to self interest, and the prospect of advantage."
"It is worthy of observation concerning that envy, which arises from a superiority in others, that it is not the great disproportion betwixt ourself and another, which produces it; but on the contrary, our proximity."
"because he finds the ideas he has in his mind to agree or disagree, according as the words standing for them are affirmed or denied one of another in the proposition."
"In all instances which we have ever seen, ideas are copied from real objects, and are ectypal, not archetypal, to express myself in learned terms: You reverse this order, and give thought the precedence."
"The Argument of assenting on first hearing, is upon a false supposition of no precedent teaching."
"But though he cannot form any such conclusion in a way of reasoning concerning she nearer approach of the pleasure, it is certain he imagines it to approach nearer, whenever all external obstacles are removed, along with the more powerful motives of interest and danger, which oppose it."
"Demonstration depends on clearly perceived proofs."
"There are rooms convenient enough, that some men cannot study in, and fashions of vessels, which, though ever so clean and commodious, they cannot drink out of, and that by reason of some accidental ideas which are annexed to them, and make them offensive; and who is there that hath not observed some man to flag at the appearance, or in the company of some certain person not otherwise superior to him, but because, having once on some occasion got the ascendant, the idea of authority and distance goes along with that of the person, and he that has been thus subjected, is not able to separate them."
"Do you not perfectly know your own ideas?"
"But men, not retaining that distinction in their thoughts, slide into a belief that the small particular line described on paper contains in itself parts innumerable."
"As we can measure space in our thoughts where there is no body."
"Wherever we perceive any agreement or disagreement amongst them, there we have general knowledge; and by putting the names of those ideas together accordingly in propositions, can with certainty pronounce general truths."
"Our reputation, our character, our name are considerations of vast weight and importance; and even the other causes of pride; virtue, beauty and riches; have little influence, when not seconded by the opinions and sentiments of others."
"And as the same idea can only be varyed by a variation of its degrees of force and vivacity; it follows upon the whole,"
"It has been observed, that all single chances are entirely equal, and that the only circumstance, which can give any event, that is contingent, a superiority over another is a superior number of chances."
"Where therefore the other sensible qualities are, there must these be also, to wit, in the mind and nowhere else."
"I confess it seems to be as you say."
"that I have quitted several of the sublime notions I had got in their schools for vulgar opinions."
"This is the reasoning I form in conformity to my hypothesis; and am pleased to find upon trial that every thing answers exactly to my expectation."
"In either of which, if it trips, the whole business of numbering will be disturbed, and there will remain only the confused idea of multitude, but the ideas necessary to distinct numeration will not be attained to."
"The incompatibility of the views keeps the passions from shocking in a direct line, if that expression may be allowed; and yet their relation is sufficient to mingle their fainter emotions."
"We have also a distinct idea of several different objects existing in succession, and connected together by a close relation; and this to an accurate view affords as perfect a notion of diversity, as if there was no manner of relation among the objects."
"what we must certainly know before, whether such a proposition be either made by, or proposed to us."
"what maxim you please."
"The reason I have for this odd conjecture is, from observing that, in the impressions made upon any of our senses, we can but to a certain degree perceive any succession; which, if exceeding quick, the sense of succession is lost, even in cases where it is evident that there is a real succession."
"What truth so obvious, so certain, as the being of a God, which the most ignorant ages have acknowledged, for which the most refined geniuses have ambitiously striven to produce new proofs and arguments?"
"I need not observe, that it is no just objection to the present doctrine, that we can reason upon our past conclusions or principles, without having recourse to those impressions, from which they first arose."
"But I go farther, and maintain, that none of these demonstrations can have sufficient weight to establish such a principle, as this of infinite divisibility; and that because with regard to such minute objects, they are not properly demonstrations, being built on ideas, which are not exact, and maxims, which are not precisely true."
"Identity depends on the relations of ideas; and these relations produce identity, by means of that easy transition they occasion."
"When this mutual contentment and satisfaction can be obtained betwixt the master and scholar, I know not what more we can require of our philosophy."
"For, 'Parents preserve your children,' is so far from an innate truth, that it is no truth at all: it being a command, and not a proposition, and so not capable of truth or falsehood."
"Consider, I beseech you, the attachment which we have to present things, and the little concern which we discover for objects so remote and uncertain."
"He may, perhaps, perceive something simple and continued, which he calls himself; though I am certain there is no such principle in me."
"But nothing can never be a cause, no more than it can be something, or equal to two right angles."
"After what manner, therefore, do they belong to self; and how are they connected with it?"
"Since you are for raising disputes about the plainest things in nature, I am content for once to hear what you have to say."
"It may, therefore, be thought, that when we have acquired the property of any small object, we shall readily consider any great object related to it as an accession, and as belonging to the proprietor of the small one; since the transition is in that case very easy from the small object to the great one, and shoued connect them together in the closest manner."
"As we are, all of us, proud in some degree, pride is universally blamed and condemned by all mankind; as having a natural tendency to cause uneasiness in others by means of comparison."
"Likewise the idea of man that I frame to myself must be either of a white, or a black, or a tawny, a straight, or a crooked, a tall, or a low, or a middle sized man."
"For if the objects of our senses continue to exist, even when they are not perceived, their existence is of course independent of and distinct from the perception: and vice versa, if their existence be independent of the perception and distinct from it, they must continue to exist, even though they be not perceived."
"So that this consciousness, not reaching to any of the actions of either of those men, he is no more one with either of them than of the soul of immaterial spirit that now informs him had been created, and began to exist, when it began to inform his present body; though it were never so true, that the same that informed Nestor's or Thersites' body were numerically the same that now informs his."
"And it will be an unpardonable, as well as childish peevishness, if we undervalue the advantages of our knowledge, and neglect to improve it to the ends for which it was given us, because there are some things that are set out of the reach of it."
"Hence every thing, that is new, is most affecting, and gives us either more pleasure or pain, than what, strictly speaking, naturally belongs to it."
"But, not to insist on that, have you not been allowed to take Matter in what sense you pleased?"
"To all the purposes of life the theory of religion becomes altogether useless: and even with regard to speculative consequences, its uncertainty, according to you, must render it totally precarious and unsatisfactory."
"do whom they condemn, for allowing it to be nothing but the subtilist parts of matter."
"In this cautious proceeding of the astronomers, you may read your own condemnation, or rather may see, that the subject in which you are engaged exceeds all human reason and inquiry."
"It is allowed, that men never have recourse to devotion so readily as when dejected with grief or depressed with sickness."
"I have exposed myself to the enmity of all metaphysicians, logicians, mathematicians, and even theologians; and can I wonder at the insults I must suffer?"
"I confess, we find among the Jews, as well as other nations, that men did sell themselves; but, it is plain, this was only to drudgery, not to slavery: for, it is evident, the person sold was not under an absolute, arbitrary, despotical power: for the master could not have power to kill him, at any time, whom, at a certain time, he was obliged to let go free out of his service; and the master of such a servant was so far from having an arbitrary power over his life, that he could not, at pleasure, so much as maim him, but the loss of an eye, or tooth, set him free, Exod."
"To this perhaps it will be said, that the people being ignorant, and always discontented, to lay the foundation of government in the unsteady opinion and uncertain humour of the people, is to expose it to certain ruin; and no government will be able long to subsist, if the people may set up a new legislative, whenever they take offence at the old one."
"For, if there can be, in their opinion, eternal matter, without any eternal cogitative Being, they manifestly separate matter and thinking, and suppose no necessary connexion of the one with the other, and so establish the necessity of an eternal Spirit, but not of matter; since it has been proved already, that an eternal cogitative Being is unavoidably to be granted."
"if he attempts upon their properties, and thereby puts himself in a state of war against them, and has no better a right of principality, he, nor any of his successors, than Hingar, or Hubba, the Danes, had here in England; or Spartacus, had he conquered Italy, would have had;"
"The same man may cause either respect, love, or contempt by his condition and talents, according as the person, who considers him, from his inferior becomes his equal or superior."
"either as signifying above probability, or above certainty: and in that large sense also, is, I suppose, sometimes taken."
"Whether the rule to which, as to a touchstone, we bring our voluntary actions, to examine them by, and try their goodness, and accordingly to name them, which is, as it were, the mark of the value we set upon them:"
"In all those instances, from which we learn the conjunction of particular causes and effects, both the causes and effects have been perceived by the senses, and are remembered"
"the powers to produce several ideas in us, by our senses, are looked upon as real qualities in the things thus affecting us: but the sort are called and esteemed barely powers,.g."
"When the present misery of another has any strong influence upon me, the vivacity of the conception is not confined merely to its immediate object, but diffuses its influence over all the related ideas, and gives me a lively notion of all the circumstances of that person, whether past, present, or future; possible, probable or certain."
"It remains, therefore, as the only reasonable opinion, that these similar views run into each other, and unite their forces; so as to produce a stronger and clearer view, than what arises from any one alone."
"with this additional perception annexed to them, that."
"This is done by leaving out those qualities, which are peculiar to each sort, and retaining a complex idea made up of those that are common to them all."
"This is that power to which children are commanded obedience, that the pains and care of their parents may not be increased, or ill rewarded."
"For, to ask whether a man be at liberty to will either motion or rest, speaking or silence, which he pleases, is to ask whether a man can will what he wills, or be pleased with what he is pleased with?"
"For, since there appear not to be any ideas in the mind before the senses have conveyed any in, I conceive that ideas in the understanding are coeval with ."
"Nor have I ever denied a difference between the objects of sense and those of imagination."
"For let a man collect into one sum as great a number as he pleases, this multitude how great soever, lessens not one jot the power of adding to it, or brings him any nearer the end of the inexhaustible stock of number; where still there remains as much to be added, as if none were taken out."
"Self depends on Consciousness, not on Substance."
"The idea of infinite has, I confess, something of positive in all those things we apply to it."
"A prisoner, who has neither money nor interest, discovers the impossibility of his escape, as well from the obstinacy of the goaler, as from the walls and bars with which he is surrounded; and in all attempts for his freedom chuses rather to work upon the stone and iron of the one, than upon the inflexible nature of the other."
"It is evident, that all the sciences have a relation, greater or less, to human nature: and that however wide any of them may seem to run from it, they still return back by one passage or another."
"And after this let us view on the other hand, the prodigious security of men in this particular: I ask, if these people really believe what is inculcated on them, and what they pretend to affirm; and the answer is obviously in the negative."
"Sixthly, Names of simple Ideas not arbitrary, but perfectly taken from the existence of things."
"(I mean a goodness like the human) could be established on any tolerable reasons a priori, these phenomena, however untoward, would not be sufficient to subvert that principle; but might easily, in some unknown manner, be reconcilable to it."
"No trivial or vulgar object, that causes not a pain or pleasure, independent of the passion, will ever, by its property or other relations either to ourselves or others, be able to produce the affections of pride or humility, love or hatred."
"They are not allowed to do themselves justice openly, in words, no more than other people; and even if they show a reserve and secret doubt in doing themselves justice in their own thoughts, they will be more applauded."
"but because the causes of these actions are only momentary, and terminate in them alone."
"It appears, therefore, that all virtuous actions derive their merit only from virtuous motives, and are considered merely as signs of those motives."
"I am much afraid lest the small success I meet with in my enquiries will make this observation bear the air of an apology rather than of boasting."
"And now tell me whether you are still of opinion that every body hath its true real colour inhering in it; and, if you think it hath, I would fain know farther from you, what certain distance and position of the object, what peculiar texture and formation of the eye, what degree or kind of light is necessary for ascertaining that true colour, and distinguishing it from apparent ones."
"There have been many objections drawn from the mathematics against the indivisibility of the parts of extension: though at first sight that science seems rather favourable to the present doctrine; and if it be contrary in its it is perfectly conformable in its definitions."
"God having made the parents instruments in his great design of continuing the race of mankind, and the occasions of life to their children; as he hath laid on them an obligation to nourish, preserve, and bring up their offspring; so he has laid on the children a perpetual obligation of honouring their parents, which containing in it an inward esteem and reverence to be shewn by all outward expressions, ties up the child from any thing that may ever injure or affront, disturb or endanger, the happiness or life of those from whom he received his; and engages him in all actions of defence, relief, assistance and comfort of those, by whose means he entered into being, and has been made capable of any enjoyments of life: from this obligation no state, no freedom can absolve children."
"Thirdly, Sometimes the foundation of considering things with reference to one another, is some act whereby any one comes by a moral right, power, or obligation to do something."
"Farther, as our ideas are perpetually varied, without any change in the supposed real things, it necessarily follows they cannot all be true copies of them: or, if some are and others are not, it is impossible to distinguish the former from the latter."
"Is it impossible to know that one and two are equal to three, but by virtue of this, or some such axiom, viz. '"
"The satisfaction we take in the riches of others, and the esteem we have for the possessors may be ascribed to three different causes."
"A very play or romance may afford us instances of this pleasure, which virtue conveys to us; and pain, which arises from vice."
"And, in order to remedy these evils, they advise well, that we attend to the ideas signified, and draw off our attention from the words which signify them."
"But if we go any farther, and ascribe a power or necessary connexion to these objects; this is what we can never observe in them, but must draw the idea of it from what we feel internally in contemplating them."
"Secondly, I shall endeavour to show what knowledge the understanding hath by those ideas; and the certainty, evidence, and extent of it."
"For if I measure anything by a yard, I know whether the thing I measure be longer or shorter than that supposed yard,"
"To establish one hypothesis upon another, is building entirely in the air; and the utmost we ever attain, by these conjectures and fictions, is to ascertain the bare possibility of our opinion; but never can we, upon such terms, establish its reality."
"And hence it is, that he who attempts to get another man into his absolute power, does thereby put himself into a state of war with him; it being to be understood as a declaration of a design upon his life: for I have reason to conclude, that he who would get me into his power without my consent, would use me as he pleased when he had got me there, and destroy me too when he had a fancy to it; for no body can desire to have me in his absolute power,"
"That there should be more species of intelligent creatures above us, than there are of sensible and material below us, is probable to me from hence:"
"He that is a close prisoner in a room twenty feet square, being at the north side of his chamber, is at liberty to walk twenty feet southward, because he can walk or not walk it; but is not, at the same time, at liberty to do the contrary, ie to walk twenty feet northward."
"For how spirits, separate from bodies, (whose knowledge and ideas of these things are certainly much more perfect than ours,) know them"
"it may naturally occasion."
"I would first know whether I rightly understand your hypothesis."
"One of Adam's children, roving in the mountains, lights on a glittering substance which pleases his eye."
"Secondly, it will be that there is a great difference betwixt real fire for instance, and the idea of fire, betwixt dreaming or imagining oneself burnt, and actually being so: if you suspect it to be only the idea of fire which you see, do but put your hand into it"
"We have nothing but one single dye to contemplate, in order to comprehend one of the most curious operations of the understanding."
"After I joined the company, whom I found sitting in 's library, paid some compliments on the great care which he took of my education, and on his unwearied perseverance and constancy in all his friendships."
"Where reason is lively, and mixes itself with some propensity, it ought to be assented to."
"As the emotions of the soul prevent any subtile reasoning and reflection, so these latter actions of the mind are equally prejudicial to the former."
"But these two powers, political and paternal, are so perfectly distinct and separate; are built upon so different foundations, and given to so different ends, that every subject that is a father, has as much a paternal power over his children, as the prince has over his: and every prince, that has parents, owes them as much filial duty and obedience, as the meanest of his subjects do to their's; and can therefore contain not any part or degree of that kind ofdominion, which a prince or magistrate has over his subject."
"because they hear, that from study and philosophy, he has entertained some speculative doubts with regard to theological subjects."
"But we must observe, that in these cases the first object is in a manner annihilated before the second comes into existence; by which means, we are never presented in any one point of time with the idea of difference and multiplicity: and for that reason are less scrupulous in calling them the same."
"Concerning words, also, it is further to be considered:"
"And if any person hath by talk put such a notion into his head, he may perhaps believe it; but if he hath never examined it, his knowledge of it will be no perfecter than his, who having been told, that the three angles of a triangle are equal to two right ones, takes it upon trust, without examining the demonstration; and may yield his assent as a probable opinion, but hath no knowledge of the truth of it; which yet his faculties, if carefully employed, were able to make clear and evident to him."
"Secondly, adequate or inadequate; Thirdly, true or false."
"To deal frankly with you, Philonous, your arguments seem in themselves unanswerable; but they have not so great an effect on me as to produce that entire conviction, that hearty acquiescence, which attends demonstration."
"And hence it is, that in all these sorts the ideas themselves are considered as the archetypes, and things no otherwise regarded, but as they are conformable to them."
"These two are the fountains of knowledge, from whence all the ideas we have, or can naturally have, do spring."
"To avoid multiplying of words, I would crave leave here, under the word to comprehend the forbearance too of any action proposed: sitting still, or holding one's peace, when walking or speaking are proposed, though mere forbearances, requiring as much the determination of the will, and being as often weighty in their consequences, as the contrary actions, may, on that consideration, well enough pass for actions too:"
"In general, it may be affirmed, that there is no such passion in human minds, as the love of mankind, merely as such, independent of personal qualities, of services, or of relation to ourseit"
"For in that case it would be possible, by the addition of others, to make two, three, four desires, and these disposed and situated in such a manner, as to have a determinate length, breadth and thickness; which is evidently absurd."
"I had almost said, that this was certain; but I reflect that it must reduce itself, as well as every other reasoning, and from knowledge degenerate into probability."
"This conceit, however, is no more reasonable than any of the foregoing."
"He that shall consider how little general maxims, precarious principles, and hypotheses laid down at pleasure, have promoted true knowledge, or helped to satisfy the inquiries of rational men after real improvements; how little, I say, the setting out at that end has, for many ages together, advanced men's progress, towards the knowledge of natural philosophy, Will think we have reason to thank those who in this latter age have taken another course, and have trod out to us, though not an easier way to learned ignorance, yet a surer way to profitable knowledge."
"no one will ever endeavour to refute these reasonings otherwise than by altering my definitions, and assigning a different meaning to the terms of cause, and effect, and necessity, and liberty, and chance."
"I would willingly establish it as a general maxim in the science of human nature, that when any impression becomes present to us, it not only transports the mind to such ideas as are related to it, but likewise communicates to them a share of its force and vivacity."
", we have plain instances, even in mankind itself."
"Thus, the limbs of his body are to every one a part of himself; he sympathizes and is concerned for them."
"No finite object can subsist under a decrease repeated and even the vastest quantity, which can enter into human imagination, must in this manner be reduced to nothing."
"Suppose now one of your hands hot, and the other cold, and that they are both at once put into the same vessel of water, in an intermediate state; will not the water seem cold to one hand, and warm to the other?"
"But in the second place, should it be asked, Whether we ought to search for these principles in nature, or whether we must look for them in some other origin?"
"This would be to make nature take pains to no purpose; or at least to write very ill; since its characters could not be read by those eyes which saw other things very well: and those are very ill supposed the clearest parts of truth, and the foundations of all our knowledge, which are not first known, and without which the undoubted knowledge of several other things may be had."
"I have no notion of it at all, only I hear others say it is infinitely divisible, and speak of it in such a manner as leads me to entertain odd thoughts of my existence; since that doctrine lays one under an absolute necessity of thinking, either that he passes away innumerable ages without a thought, or else that he is annihilated every moment of his life, both which seem equally absurd."
"I am sure you cannot say it is for the glory of God."
"You are very scrupulous, indeed, said were I to examine any system of yours, I should not have acted with half that caution and reserve, in starting objections and difficulties to it."
"In reality, it may reasonably be expected, that the larger the views are which we take of things, the better will they conduct us in our conclusions concerning such extraordinary and such magnificent subjects."
"But the love or hatred of an inferior causes not readily any passion to the superior, though that be the natural propensity of the imagination: While the love or hatred of a superior, causes a passion to the inferior, contrary to its propensity."
"But when we alter our method of considering the succession, and instead of traceing it gradually through the successive points of time, survey at once Any two distinct periods of its duration, and compare the different conditions of the successive qualities; in that case the variations, which were insensible when they arose gradually, do now appear of consequence, and seem entirely to destroy the identity."
"It has been observed already, that in no single instance the ultimate connexion of any objects is discoverable, either by our senses or reason, and that we can never penetrate so far into the essence and construction of bodies, as to perceive the principle, on which their mutual influence depends."
"Upon this is founded that saying, That the reigns of good princes have been always most dangerous to the liberties of their people: for when their successors, managing the government with different thoughts, would draw the actions of those good rulers into precedent, and make them the standard of their prerogative, as if what had been done only for the good of the people was a right in them to do, for the harm of the people, if they so pleased; it has often occasioned contest, and sometimes public disorders, before the people could recover their original right, and get that to be declared not to be prerogative, which truly was never so; since it is impossible that any body in the society should ever have a right to do the people harm; though it be very possible, and reasonable, that the people should not go about to set any bounds to the prerogative of those kings, or rulers, who themselves transgressed not the bounds of the public good: for prerogative is nothing but the power of doing public good without a rule."
"All these are evident proofs, that pride and humility are not merely human passions, but extend themselves over the whole animal creation."
"In this phaenomenon are contained two curious experiments, which if we compare them together, according to the known rules, by which we judge of cause and effect in anatomy, natural philosophy, and other sciences, will be an undeniable argument for that influence of the double relations above mentioned."
"The mind is here limited by the causes to such a precise number and quality of the events; and at the same time is undetermined in its choice of any particular event."
"When is the mind said to be active?"
"And therefore experimenting and discovering in ourselves knowledge, and the power of voluntary motion, as certainly as we experiment, or discover in things without us, the cohesion and separation of solid parts, which is the extension and motion of bodies; we have as much reason to be satisfied with our notion of immaterial spirit, as with our notion of body, and the existence of the one as well as the other."
"As it happened to a Dutch ambassador, who entertaining the king of Siam with the particularities of Holland, which he was inquisitive after, amongst other things told him, that the water in his country would sometimes, in cold weather, be so hard, that men walked upon it, and that it would bear an elephant, if he were there."
"We may observe, that in order to prove the ideas of extension and colour not to be innate, philosophers do nothing"
"What delicacy, what beauty, what contrivance, in animal and vegetable bodies"
"Whether any by interests of these professions have occasioned this, I will not here examine; but I leave it to be considered, whether it would not be well for mankind, whose concernment it is to know things as they are, and to do what they ought, and not to spend their lives in talking about them, or tossing words to and fro; whether it would not be well, I say, that the use of words were made plain and direct; and that language, which was given us for the improvement of knowledge and bond of society, should not be employed to darken truth and unsettle people's rights; to raise mists, and render unintelligible both morality and religion?"
"And if he be one who takes his opinions upon trust, how can we imagine that he should renounce those tenets which time and custom have so settled in his mind, that he thinks them self evident, and of an unquestionably certainty; or which he takes to be impressions he has received from God himself, or from men sent by him?"
"Actions are pleasing or displeasing, either in themselves, or considered as a means to a greater and more desirable end."
"No ideas but from Sensation and Reflection, evident, if we observe Children."
"Good sense and genius beget esteem: Wit and humour excite love."
"The passions of and being simple and uniform impressions, it is impossible we can ever, by a multitude of words, give a just definition of them, or indeed of any of the passions."
"If it be said, that wise men of all nations came to have true conceptions of the unity and infinity of the Deity, I grant it."
"In the mean time I cannot forbear observing, that the great difference in their feeling proceeds in some measure from reflection and."
"And, as I am no sceptic with regard to the nature of things, so neither am I as to their existence."
"the side and diagonal of a square,"
"Philonous, I am at a loss."
"When from the present instant we consider two points of time equally distant in the future and in the past, it is evident, that, abstractedly considered, their relation to the present is almost equal."
"What use these general Maxims or Axioms have."
"But let us beware, lest we think that our ideas anywise correspond to his perfections, or that his attributes have any resemblance to these qualities among men."
"I ever before believed the Mosaic account of the creation, and now find no alteration in my manner of believing it."
"If you can conceive it possible for any mixture or combination of qualities, or any sensible object whatever, to exist without the mind, then I will grant it actually to be so."
"Arithmetic has been thought to have for its object abstract ideas of Number; of which to understand the properties and mutual habitudes, is supposed no mean part of speculative knowledge."
"Right to authority is nothing but the constant possession of authority, maintained by the laws of society and the interests of mankind; and nothing can be more natural than to join this constant possession to the present one, according to the principles above mentioned."
"Upon the whole, pride is connected with humility, love with hatred, by their objects or ideas:"
"Your reasonings are more easily eluded than my facts."
"When things are said to begin or end their existence, we do not mean this with regard to God, but His creatures."
"And are you so late in perceiving it? replied."
"Is it in every part without being extended?"
"By this argument a posteriori, and by this argument alone, do we prove at once the existence of a Deity, and his similarity to human mind and intelligence."
"This, I suppose, needs no application to make it plainer."
"If we narrow our contemplations, and confine our thoughts to this little canton"
"Syllogism helps little in Demonstration, less in Probability."
"And perhaps if they were distinctly weighed, and duly considered, they would afford us another sort of logic and critic, than what we have been hitherto acquainted with."
"In general we may observe, that in all kinds of comparison an object makes us always receive from another,"
"Did we know that, it would serve us only for experimental (not universal) knowledge; and reach with certainty no further than that bare instance: because our understandings can discover no conceivable connexion between any secondary quality and any modification whatsoever of any of the primary ones."
"I grant, that these effects of the removal of design, in diminishing the relations of impressions and ideas, are not entire, nor able to remove every degree of these relations."
"Now as all objects, which are not contrary, are susceptible of a constant conjunction, and as no real objects are contrary: it follows, that for ought we can determine by the mere ideas, any thing may be the cause or effect of any thing; which evidently gives the advantage to the materialists above their antagonists."
"There remains that other sort, concerning which men entertain opinions with variety of assent, though."
"Public interest, education, and the artifices of politicians, have the same effect in both cases."
"It is sufficient for me, if by a Discourse, perhaps something out of the way, I am sure, as to me, wholly new and unborrowed, I shall have given occasion to others to cast about for new discoveries, and to seek in their own thoughts for those right helps of art, which will scarce be found, I fear, by those who servilely confine themselves to the rules and dictates of others."
"The like may be said of all the clockwork of nature, great part whereof is so wonderfully fine and subtle as scarce to be discerned by the best microscope."
"The idea of cause and effect is derived from experience, which informs us, that such particular objects, in all past instances, have been constantly conjoined with each other: And as an object similar to one of these is supposed to be immediately present in its impression, we thence presume on the existence of one similar to its usual attendant."
"Nothing is more admirable, than the readiness, with which the imagination suggests its ideas, and presents them at the very instant, in which they become necessary or useful."
"As they are altogether unknown and inconceivable, they can never be proved incompatible with it."
"To check this precipitancy, our understanding and reason were given us, if we will make a right use of them, to search and see, and then judge thereupon."
"Whether it be probable that a promiscuous jumble of printing letters should often fall into a method and order, which should stamp on paper a coherent discourse; or that a blind fortuitous concourse of atoms, not guided by an understanding agent, should frequently constitute the bodies of any species of animals:"
"the and that, it is plain, is existence itself; which determines a being of any sort to a particular time and place, incommunicable to two beings of the same kind."
"desired a day to think of it, and then two days more; and after that manner continually prolonged the term, without ever bringing in his definition or description?"
"But wheresoever we can suppose such a creature as man is, endowed with such faculties, and thereby furnished with such ideas as we have, we must conclude, he must needs, when he applies his thoughts to the consideration of his ideas, know the truth of certain propositions that will arise from the agreement or disagreement which he will perceive in his own ideas."
"What faculties, therefore, other species of creatures have to penetrate into the nature and inmost constitutions of things; what ideas they may receive of them far different from ours, we know not."
"But when, instead of meaning these unknown qualities, we make the terms of power and efficacy signify something, of which we have a clear idea, and which is incompatible with those objects, to which we apply it, obscurity and error begin then to take place, and we are led astray by a false philosophy."
"Thus the ideas, as well as children, of our youth, often die before us: and our minds represent to us those tombs to which we are approaching; where, though the brass and marble remain, yet the inscriptions are effaced by time, and the imagery moulders away."
"But may perhaps be fittest to be considered by us, as the simple ideas of that kind out of which our complex modes of space, extension, and duration are made up, and into which they can again be distinctly resolved."
"For, how large soever an idea of space I have in my mind, it is no larger than it is that instant that I have it, though I be capable"
"Now we have no such extensive concern for society but from sympathy; and consequently it is that principle, which takes us so far out of ourselves, as to give us the same pleasure or uneasiness in the characters of others, as if they had a tendency to our own advantage or loss."
"The passions are so contagious, that they pass with the greatest facility from one person to another, and produce correspondent movements in all human breasts."
"to which it is compared, a sensation contrary to what arises from itself in its direct and immediate survey."
", ideas wherein can be found the least difference, thereby to avoid being misled by similitude, and by affinity to take one thing for another."
"If we desire similar instances, it will not be very difficult to find them."
"Ought the Roman empire at that time to be esteemed hereditary, because of two examples; or ought it, even so early, to be regarded as belonging to the stronger, or the present possessor, as being founded on so recent an usurpation?"
"Some hasty and undigested thoughts, on a subject I had never before considered, which I set down against our next meeting, gave the first entrance into this Discourse; which having been thus begun by chance, was continued by intreaty; written by incoherent parcels; and after long intervals of neglect, resumed again, as my humour or occasions permitted; and at last, in a retirement where an attendance on my health gave me leisure, it was brought into that order thou now seest it."
"There is one thing more wherein space and duration have a great conformity, and that is, though they are justly reckoned amongst our yet none of the distinct ideas we have of either is without all manner of composition: it is the very nature of both of them to consist of parts: but their parts being all of the same kind, and without the mixture of any other idea, hinder them not from having a place amongst simple ideas."
"sometimes the word time is used in a larger sense, and is applied to parts of that infinite duration, not that were really distinguished and measured out by this real existence, and periodical motions of bodies, that were appointed from the beginning to be for signs and for seasons and for days and years, and are accordingly our measures of time; but such other portions too of that infinite uniform duration, which we upon any occasion do suppose equal to certain lengths of measured time; and so consider them as bounded and determined."
"This is the reason why men so often act in contradiction to their known interest; and in particular why they prefer any trivial advantage, that is present, to the maintenance of order in society, which so much depends on the observance of justice."
"His houses, equipage, furniture, doaths, horses, hounds, excel all others in his conceit; and it is easy to observe, that from the least advantage in any of these, he draws a new subject of pride and vanity."
"No discovery coued have been made more happily for deciding all controversies concerning ideas, than that abovementioned, that impressions always take the precedency of them, and that every idea, with which the imagination is furnished, first makes its appearance in a correspondent impression."
"Besides, they who attempt to account for things do it not by but by figure, motion, and other qualities, which are in truth no more than mere ideas, and, therefore, cannot be the cause of anything, as has been already shown."
"Because relative words, being the marks of this comparison, which is made only by men's thoughts, and is an idea only in men's minds, men frequently apply them to different comparisons of things, according to their own imaginations; which do not always correspond with those of others using the same name."
"all the same objections (if they merit that appellation) which lie against the system of Theism, may also be produced against this inference."
"Things then are good or evil, only in reference to pleasure or pain."
"Now such as the parts are, such is the whole."
"But if they universally have a persuation, grounded upon manifest evidence, that designs are carrying on against their liberties, and the general course and tendency of things cannot but give them strong suspicions of the evil intention of their governors, who is to be blamed for it?"
"So much as we ourselves consider and comprehend of truth and reason, so much we possess of real and true knowledge."
"And, last of all, sound sleep closes the scene quite, and puts an end to all appearances."
"Many a man who was pretty well satisfied of the meaning of a text of Scripture, or clause in the code, at first reading, has, by consulting commentators, quite lost the sense of it, and by these elucidations given rise or increase to his doubts, and drawn obscurity upon the place."
"I shall be obliged to make a digression in order to explain this phaenomenon."
"Besides these complex ideas of several substances, as of man, horse, gold, violet, apple, andc."
"Which we are not at all to wonder at, since we having but some few superficial ideas of things, discovered to us only by the senses from without, or by the mind, reflecting on what it experiments in itself within, have no knowledge beyond that, much less of the internal constitution, and true nature of things, being destitute of faculties to attain it."
"In this point, said the learned are perfectly agreed with the vulgar; and in all letters, sacred and profane, the topic of human misery has been insisted on with the most pathetic eloquence that sorrow and melancholy could inspire."
"In the other, God himself affords it immediately to us: and we see the truth of what he says in his unerring veracity."
"To be a philosophical Sceptic is, in a man of letters, the first and most essential step towards being a sound, believing Christian; a proposition which I would willingly recommend to the attention of"
"All relatives made up of simple ideas."
"When in broad daylight I open my eyes, it is not in my power to choose whether I shall see or no, or to determine what particular objects shall present themselves to my view; and so likewise as to the hearing and other senses; the ideas imprinted on them are not creatures of my will."
"For what is the memory but a faculty, by which we raise up the images of past perceptions?"
"I. shall just observe, before I leave the present subject, that this phaenomenon of the double sympathy, and its tendency to cause love, may contribute to the production of the kindness, which we naturally bear our relations and acquaintance."
"Which consequence, I conceive, is very ill collected, because the existence of matter is no ways necessary to the existence of space, no more than the existence of motion, or the sun, is necessary to duration, though duration uses to be measured by it."
"There is no contradiction, therefore, in extending the same doctrine to all the perceptions."
"All men, say they, are born under government, and therefore they cannot be at liberty to begin a new one."
"It is a remarkable property of human nature, that any emotion, which attends a passion, is easily converted into it, though in their natures they be originally different from, and even contrary to each other."
"Whatever more there is as that I perceive such a particular smell, or any smell at all"
"To which I answer, First, No more than any other hypothesis: for when the people are made miserable, and find themselves exposed to the ill usage of arbitrary power, cry up their governors, as much as you will, for sons of Jupiter; let them be sacred and divine, descended, or authorized from heaven; give them out for whom or"
"what universal principles of knowledge?"
"The idea of we receive by our touch: and it arises from the resistance which we find in body to the entrance of any other body into the place it possesses, till it has left it."
"A mite therefore must be supposed to see his own foot, and things equal or even less than it, as bodies of some considerable dimension; though at the same time they appear to you scarce discernible, or at best as so many visible points?"
"But if ever reason be of sufficient force to overcome prejudice, it is certain, that in the present case it must prevail."
"There is no such thing as the ten thousandth part of an inch; but there is of a mile or diameter of the earth, which may be signified by that inch."
"Since, therefore, this is the ordinary course of human actions, we may conclude, that the laws of justice, being universal and perfectly inflexible, can never be derived from nature, nor be the immediate offspring of any natural motive or inclination."
"But perhaps it may not be an unpardonable digression, nor wholly impertinent to our present design, if we reflect here upon the different state of the mind in thinking, which those instances of attention, reverie, and dreaming, andc."
"Of the epilepsy; because it gives a horror to every one present: Of the itch; because it is infectious: Of the king's evil; because it commonly goes to posterity."
"You will answer, perhaps, Because, about twenty or forty years since, you began to be."
"Why distance weakens the conception and passion: Why distance in time has a greater effect than that in space:"
"If instead of answering these questions, any one should evade the difficulty, by saying, that the definition of a substance is something which may exist by itself; and that this definition ought to satisfy us: should this be said, I should observe, that this definition agrees to every thing, that can possibly be conceived; and never will serve to distinguish substance from accident, or the soul from its perceptions."
"Among the former, we may justly esteem our selfishness to be the most considerable."
"If we can find out those measures, whereby a rational creature, put in that state in which man is in this world, may and ought to govern his opinions, and actions depending thereon, we need not to be troubled that some other things escape our knowledge."
"But as such a method of proceeding may seem either to weaken my system, by resting one part of it on another, or to breed a confusion in my reasoning, I shall endeavour to maintain my present assertion without any such assistance."
"Can another man perceive that I am conscious of anything, when I perceive it not myself?"
"The cause, therefore, of the world, we may infer to be something similar or analogous to generation or vegetation."
"What mean you by Sensible Things?"
"And here we have the plain difference between the state of nature and the state of war, which however some men have confounded, are as far distant, as a state of peace, good will, mutual assistance and preservation, and a state of enmity, malice, violence and mutual destruction, are one from another."
"You can trace causes from effects: You can compare the most distant and remote objects: and your greatest errors proceed not from barrenness of thought and invention, but from too luxuriant a fertility, which suppresses your natural good sense, by a profusion of unnecessary scruples and objections."
"I. It having been shewn in the foregoing discourse, /i."
"Add to this, that nothing determined them to run to the gates rather than the walls, or any other part of the city, but that the gates, being the most obvious and remarkable part, satisfy the fancy best in taking them for the whole; as we find by the poets, who frequently draw their images and metaphors from them."
"Their nature and principles have been supposed the same, because their sensations are not evidently different."
"We must therefore look to some other quarter for a solution of the present difficulty."
"That faculty of the soul, which, of all others, is of the least consequence to the character, and has the least virtue or vice in its several degrees, at the same time, that it admits of a great variety of degrees, is the memory."
"For we see that other well meaning and wise men, whose education and parts had not acquired that could intelligibly express themselves to one another; and in its plain use make a benefit of language."
"Moral distinctions, therefore, are not the offspring of reason."
"We conclude in general, that some one of them must result from the throw: We run all of them over in our minds:"
"said that prince, abandoned by his soldiers, among barbarians, not yet fully subdued, felt in himself such a dignity of right and of empire, that he coued not believe it possible any one coued refuse to obey him."
"External objects are seen, and felt, and become present to the mind; that is, they acquire such a relation to a connected heap of perceptions, as to influence them very considerably in augmenting their number by present reflections and passions, and in storing the memory with ideas."
"That impertinent, and almost universal propensity of men, to over value themselves, has given us such a prejudice against self applause, that we are apt to condemn it, by a general rule, wherever we meet with it; and it is with some difficulty we give a privilege to men of sense, even in their most secret thoughts."
"For my soul, being a real being as well as my body, is certainly as capable of changing distance with any other body, or being, as body itself; and so is capable of motion."
", I should reply, that in my opinion it proceeds from those very principles, on which all judgments concerning causes and effects depend."
"If we define a cause to be an object precedent and contiguous to another, and where all the objects resembling the farmer are placed in a like relation of priority and contiguity to those objects, that resemble the latter; we may easily conceive, that there is no absolute nor metaphysical necessity, that every beginning of existence should be attended with such an object."
"And, as there is no more meaning in than in the one is to be exploded as well as the other."
"How then is it possible, that the same substance can at once be modifyed into that square table, and into this round one?"
"For the colour and taste of opium are, as well as its soporific or anodyne virtues, mere powers, depending on its primary qualities, whereby it is fitted to produce different operations on different parts of our bodies."
"This cannot be thus done in moral ideas: we have no sensible marks that resemble them, whereby we can set them down; we have nothing but words to express them by; which, though when written they remain the same, yet the ideas they stand for may change in the same man; and it is very seldom that they are not different in different persons."
"also is another of those simple ideas which we receive from sensation and reflection."
"From this quality it is easily conceived why it should be connected with the sense of beauty."
"yet we have no certain knowledge."
"This, therefore, being my purpose to inquire into the original, certainty, and extent of together with the grounds and degrees of"
"Push the same inference a step further, and you will find a numerous society of deities as explicable as one universal deity, who possesses within himself the powers and perfections of the whole society."
"On the other hand, we are pleased with the regularity of our own features, though it be neither useful to ourselves nor others; and it is necessary at a distance, to make it convey to us any satisfaction."
"then seems to me to be nothing but."
"When experience has once given us a competent knowledge of human affairs, and has taught us the proportion they bear to human passion, we perceive, that the generosity of men is very limited, and that it seldom extends beyond their friends and family, or, at most, beyond their native country."
"If, therefore, it be evident, that something necessarily must exist from eternity, it is also as evident, that that something must necessarily be a cogitative being: for it is as impossible that incogitative matter should produce a cogitative being, as that nothing, or the negation of all being, should produce a positive being or matter."
"Accordingly we find, that philosophers neglect not this advantage; but immediately upon leaving their closets, mingle with the rest of mankind in those exploded opinions, that our perceptions are our only objects, and continue identically and uninterruptedly the same in all their interrupted appearances."
"This is an inconvenience, I confess, that attends all governments whatsoever, when the governors have brought it to this pass, to be generally suspected of their people; the most dangerous state which they can possibly put themselves in, wherein they are the less to be pitied, because it is so easy to be avoided; it being as impossible for a governor, if he really means the good of his people, and the preservation of them, and their laws together, not to make them see and feel it, as it is for the father of a family, not to let his children see he loves, and takes care of them."
"Inhesion in something is supposed to be requisite to support the existence of our perceptions."
"Nay it is not only possible we may have such an experience, but it is certain we have it; since every one may perceive, that the different dispositions of his body change his thoughts and sentiments."
"Indeed, to a man that knows the signification of the word metal, and not of the word lead, it is a shorter way to explain the signification of the word lead, by saying it is a metal, which at once expresses several of its simple ideas, than to enumerate them one by one, telling him it is a body very heavy, fusible, and malleable."
"external material things, as the objects of and the operations of our own minds within, as the objects of are to me the only originals from whence"
"I have no immediate intuition"
"Reason, in innumerable instances, is observed to arise from the principle of generation, and never to arise from any other principle."
"which is as follows: are not so obvious or easy to children or the yet unexercised mind as particular ones."
"I confess it seems so."
"As far as any such Co existence can be known, so far Universal Propositions maybe certain."
"And thus came in the use of money, some lasting thing that men might keep without spoiling, and that by mutual consent men would take in exchange for the truly useful, but perishable supports of life."
"It follows, therefore, that since the act of the mind, which enters into a promise, and produces its obligation, is neither the resolving, desiring, nor willing any particular performance, it must necessarily be the willing of that obligation, which arises from the promise."
"And to this I say that,."
"For this reason we remove the poor as far from us as possible; and as we cannot prevent poverty in some distant collaterals, and our forefathers are taken to be our nearest relations; upon this account every one affects to be of a good family, and to be descended from a long succession of rich and honourable ancestors."
"That would be to make a dictionary of the greatest part of the words made use of in divinity, ethics, law, and politics, and several other sciences."
"Strong and almost incontestable proofs may be traced over the whole earth, that every part of this globe has continued for many ages entirely covered with water."
"Since, therefore, the natural obligation to justice, among different states, is not so strong as among individuals, the moral obligation, which arises from it, must partake of its weakness; and we must necessarily give a greater indulgence to a prince or minister, who deceives another; than to a private gentleman, who breaks his word of honour."
"There is another division of our perceptions, which it will be convenient to observe, and which extends itself both to our impressions and ideas."
"when I distinguished them into impressions of sensation and reflection."
", the qualities then which are the objects of the fifth sense had been as far from our notice, imagination, and conception, as now any belonging to a sixth, seventh, or eighth sense can possibly be; which, whether yet some other creatures, in some other parts of this vast and stupendous universe, may not have, will be a great presumption to deny."
"In the foregoing instances some of the causes have been shown of wrong assent, and how it comes to pass, that probable doctrines are not always received with an assent proportionable to the reasons which are to be had for their probability: but hitherto we have considered only such probabilities whose proofs do exist, but do not appear to him who embraces the error."
"yet I think it is very improper and insignificant to ask, whether it be essential to the particular parcel of matter I cut my pen with; without considering it under the name or as being of a certain species."
"Generally speaking we do not suppose them specifically different; but only attribute to them different relations, connections and durations."
"Because the Ideas they stand for are so complex."
"To prepare such an assembly as this, and endeavour to set up the declared abettors of his own will, for the true representatives of the people, and the law makers of the society, is certainly as great a breach of trust, and as perfect a declaration of a design to subvert the government, as is possible to be met with."
"Terms leading the Mind beyond the Subject denominated, are relative."
"Consider well the consequences of such a principle."
"We may as well think the use of reason necessary to make our eyes discover visible objects, as that there should be need of reason, or the exercise thereof, to make the understanding see what is originally engraven on it, and cannot be in the understanding before it be perceived by it."
"First, It is directly contrary to experience, and our immediate consciousness."
"I do not pretend to say how these attributes are in God, who is infinitely beyond the reach of our narrow capacities: they do, without doubt, contain in them all possible perfection: but this, I say, is our way of conceiving them, and these our ideas of their infinity."
"Thus the fruits of our garden, the offspring of our cattle, and the work of our slaves, are all of them esteemed our property, even before possession."
"But as for solid corporeal substances, I desire you to show where Moses makes any mention of them; and, if they should be mentioned by him, or any other inspired writer, it would still be incumbent on you to shew those words were not taken in the vulgar acceptation, for things falling under our senses, but"
", that is, they are nothing at all."
"For whatever makes the specific idea to which the name is applied, if that idea be steadily kept to, the distinction of anything into the same and divers will easily be conceived, and there can arise no doubt about it."
"But at the same time I demand as an equitable condition, that if my system be the only one, which can answer to all these terms, it may be receivd as entirely satisfactory and convincing."
"For, during this suspension of any desire, before the will be determined to action, and the action (which follows that determination) done, we have opportunity to examine, view, and judge of the good or evil of what we are going to do; and when, upon due examination, we have judged, we have done our duty, all that we can, or ought to do, in pursuit of our happiness; and it is not a fault, but a perfection of our nature, to desire, will, and act according to the last result of a fair examination."
"Prosperity is denominated ascent, and adversity descent."
"Whoever, therefore, have imbibed wrong principles, are not, in things inconsistent with these principles, to be moved by the most apparent and convincing probabilities, till they are so candid and ingenuous to themselves, as to be persuaded to examine even those very principles, which many never suffer themselves to do."
"The real essence, the internal qualities and constitution of every the meanest object, is hid from our view; something there is in every drop of water, every grain of sand, which it is beyond the power of human understanding to fathom or comprehend."
"I presume, that it is impossible to prove either of these two points; and therefore I venture to conclude that promises are human inventions, founded on the necessities and interests of society."
"But the principle of innate ideas being allowed to be false, it follows, that the supposition of a deity can serve us in no stead, in accounting for that idea of agency, which we search for in vain in all the objects, which are presented to our senses, or which we are internally conscious of in our own minds."
"This eternal source, then, of all being must also be the source and original of all power; and so."
"A mere soldier little values the character of eloquence:"
"But the minutest parts we can conceive are mathematical points; and consequently this standard of equality is the same with that derived from the equality of the number of points; which we have already determined to be a just but an useless standard."
"Reason can never satisfy us that the existence of any one object does ever imply that of another; so that when we pass from the impression of one to the idea or belief of another, we are not determined by reason, but by custom or a principle of association."
"He was fittest to be trusted; paternal affection secured their property and interest under his care; and the custom of obeying him, in their childhood, made it easier to submit to him, rather than to any other."
"And therefore a king governing in a settled kingdom, leaves to be a king, and degenerates into a tyrant, as soon as he leaves off to rule according to his laws."
"I shall not enter any further into that disquisition; it sufficing to my purpose to observe, that gold or saffron has power to produce in us the idea of yellow, and snow or milk the idea of white, which we can only have by our sight without examining the texture of the parts of those bodies or the particular figures or motion of the particles which rebound from them, to cause in us that particular sensation, though, when we go beyond the bare ideas in our minds and would inquire into their causes, we cannot conceive anything else to be in any sensible object, whereby it produces different ideas in us, but the different bulk, figure, number, texture, and motion of its insensible parts. ."
"In all that is here suggested concerning their little use for the improvement of knowledge, or dangerous use in undetermined ideas, I have been far enough from saying or intending they should be laid aside; as some have been too forward to charge me."
"Wherefore if the king shall shew an hatred, not only to some particular persons, but sets himself against the body of the commonwealth, whereof"
"For it is impossible to conceive that matter, either with or without motion, could have, originally, in and from itself, sense, perception, and knowledge; as is evident from hence, that then sense, perception, and knowledge, must be a property eternally inseparable from matter and every particle of it."
"And thus I have given a short, and, I think,"
"The third argument of this kind I shall make use of may be explained thus."
"It is true, that we cannot but be assured, that the great God, of whom and from whom are all things, is incomprehensibly infinite: but yet, when we apply to that first and supreme Being our idea of infinite, in our weak and narrow thoughts, we do it primarily in respect to his duration and ubiquity; and, I think, more figuratively to his power, wisdom, and goodness, and other attributes which are properly inexhaustible and incomprehensible, andc."
"Resipiscendum esse a peccatis."
"I alone having the ideas in my mind, the names of them could not be significant or intelligible to another, who was not acquainted with all those very particular things which had fallen under my notice."
"we have no certainty, but only some inducements to receive them for true."
"You were represented, in last night's conversation, as one who maintained the most extravagant opinion that ever entered into the mind of man, to wit, that there is no such thing as in the world."
"I am sensible how abstruse all this reasoning must appear to the generality of readers, who not being accustomed to such profound reflections on the intellectual faculties of the mind, will be apt to reject as chimerical whatever strikes not in with the common received notions, and with the easiest and most obvious principles of philosophy."
