"x"
"This childish imperialism can only be found in an individual who dreams his destiny: dreams abolish time and obstacles, they need to be exaggerated to compensate for the small amount of reality; whoever has authentic projects knows a finitude that is the gauge of one's concrete power."
"labor power is not a part of the process of social production but a prerequisite to it."
"In Hollywood films the Circe image survives as the bad woman."
"And this is our struggle for wages for housework."
"I shall not go back to the remote annals of antiquity to trace the history of woman; it is sufficient to allow, that she has always been either a slave or a despot, and to remark, that each of these situations equally retards the progress of reason."
"… at seventeen, deflowered on the beach one summer evening by a young man whom she had just met at the hotel and at a hundred meters from their two mothers, who were talking about trifles."
"but these words clash tries to convert the lover's passion into tenderness, friendship, habit; or she tries to attach him with solid ties: a child or marriage; this desire of marriage haunts many liaisons: it is one of security; the clever mistress takes advantage of the generosity of young love to take out insurance on the future: but when she gives herself over to these speculations, she no longer deserves the name of woman in love."
"Because her partners are counterparts, all combinations, transpositions, exchanges, and scenarios are possible."
"is injurious to its moral character."
"The failure of absolute love is a productive ordeal only if the woman is capable of taking herself in hand again; separated from Ab lard, lo se was not a wreck, because, directing an abbey, she constructed an autonomous existence."
"She usually begins her conjugal life in bad faith; she easily persuades herself that she feels great love for her husband; and this passion takes on a more manic, possessive, and jealous form"
"Some women happily caress their babies while they are still in the hospital, still gay and carefree, but upon returning home, they start to regard them as burdens."
"Masculine fortunes paid for the gold, incense, and myrrh that Isadora Duncan and cile Sorel laid at the foot of their thrones."
"Many boys bemoan that such a privilege is denied them; if, later, they take eggs from nests, stamp on young plants, if they destroy life around them with a kind of rage, it is out of revenge at not being able to hatch life, while the little girl is enchanted with the thought of creating it one day."
"Yet the eager pursuit of the good which every one shapes to his own fancy, proclaims man the lord of this lower world, and to be an intelligential creature, who is not to receive, but acquire happiness."
"I remember a woman friend who, when faced with the long silence from a far off lover, declared, 'When one wants to break up, one writes to announce it'; then upon receiving an unambiguous letter: 'When one really wants to break up, one doesn't write.'"
"Nothing had changed, but she had the sensation that she would never again be able to be alone."
"When Sojourner Truth insisted that 'if you bait the suffrage hook with a woman, you will certainly catch a black man,' she issued yet another profound warning about the menacing influence of racist ideology."
"… it gnaws at my conscience Lyovochka is a wonderful man"
"But under the patriarchal regime, she was the property of a father who married her off as he saw fit; then attached to her husband's household, she was no more than his thing and the thing of the family (genos) in which she was placed."
"…, deflowered at fourteen by a young man who drew her to his house under the pretext that he wanted her to meet his sister."
"To reply to this question, we will need to specify the relation of this myth to reality."
"Where are the women?'"
"The species inhabits the female and absorbs much of her individual life; the male, by contrast, integrates specific living forces in his individual life."
", took the most extraordinarily devoted care of the children entrusted to her: it was a prolongation of her childish dreams in which she formed a couple with her mother to raise a child; suddenly she began to neglect her service, to be indifferent to the children, to go out, flirt; the time of games was finished, and she was beginning to pay attention to her real life, where desire for motherhood did not hold a great place."
"The phallus is the connecting link between the two rivers, that establishes the two streams in a oneness.'"
"The Negro's sexual laxity, considered so immoral or even criminal in the white man's civilization, may have been all but a virtue in the habitat of his origin."
"In a article published in The Nation, 'Our Feudal Housewives,' as the piece was entitled, were said to work some seventy two hours a week, receiving the lowest wages of all occupations."
"She is the soul of the house, the family, and the home, as well as larger groups: the town, province, or nation."
"and I held her tight"
"Born in Trinidad when it was still the British West Indies, Claudia Jones immigrated to the United States with her parents when she was still quite young."
"Even today, popular holidays are exemplified by outbreaks of eroticism; woman is not just an object of pleasure but a means of reaching this hubris in which the individual surpasses himself. '"
"It is understandable that she should have trouble establishing her balance."
"Normally, she looks for the man who represents male superiority; she is rapidly led to discover that many individuals of the chosen sex are sadly contingent and mundane; but first she is favorably disposed toward them; they have less to prove their value than to keep from grossly disavowing it: this explains many often lamentable errors; the naive young girl is taken in by virility."
"Sanseverina, that 'active soul,' dreads boredom more than death."
"One might say that in general women do not make such a fuss; they seize the occasion without much questioning, and then they make do with their pride and sensuality."
"The vehemence with which she tries to fool herself by saying 'He loves me madly, he can love no one but me' does not exclude the torture of jealousy."
"In the time of Gregory when celibacy was imposed on priests, woman's dangerous character was more harshly asserted: all the Fathers of the Church proclaim her wretchedness."
"Nothing else had she of the slightest importance anybody could do it; yet"
"In general, however, the woman works 'cold.'"
"But the adolescent boy is drawn, willingly or not, into a man's existence that reveals responsibilities, goals, and values; he is thrown into the world, he takes a stand, he becomes committed."
"Both have to give themselves to each other, body and soul."
"Hasty observers are wrong to think woman is not up to the possibilities offered her today or even to see only dangerous temptations in these possibilities."
"This was the logic behind the rising waves of lynchings and the pattern of legal disfranchisement in the South."
"It was all very well to say it was the common lot of women to bear children."
"This was clearly a blow for women's rights and it predated, by four years, the official launching of the women's movement."
"The young heroine of the Psychoanalytical Journal described her horror of the sanitary napkin; she did not even consent to undress in front of her sister except in the dark during these times."
"Regardless of the ego looking for itself through her, it can only attain itself if she consents to be his crucible."
"The synthesis of life and spirit is completed: the mother not only engenders body but also gives God a soul; this is higher work than penetrating the secrets of the atom."
"On these the children's thoughts are fixed with eager anticipating hopes, for, at least, to speak with moderation, half of the time, and when they arrive they are spent in total dissipation and beastly indulgence."
"Aside from the fleeting coitus, the male's life is useless, gratuitous:"
"She approaches them with artificial expressions; she is prudent, hypocritical, playacting."
"A wicked person might do evil things with it."
"I have observed, that young people, to whose education particular attention has been paid, have, in general, been very superficial and conceited, and far from pleasing in any respect, because they had neither the unsuspecting warmth of youth, nor the cool depth of age."
"Sexual morality is at its strictest; since the law of June reinforced by that of June abortion has been banned and divorce almost suppressed; adultery is condemned by moral standards."
"For some metazoans, reproduction occurs by schizogenesis, that is dividing the individual whose origin is also asexual, or by blastogenesis, that is dividing the individual itself produced by a sexual phenomenon: the phenomena of budding or segmentation observed in freshwater hydras, coelenterates, sponges, worms, and tunicates are well known examples."
"There are spiritual advisers who even indicate this calendar to their flocks."
"But when the man separates himself from her, she finds herself thrown back to earth, on a bed, in the light; she has a name and a face again: she is a conquered person, a prey, an object."
"Kierkegaard does admit there must previously be an 'inclination,' but that it be thought to last a whole lifetime is no less miraculous."
"There is no common interest linking the lawyer's wife to the doctor's and none between Dr. Dupont's and Dr. Durand's."
"In life, on the contrary, as we gradually discover the imperfections of our nature, we discover virtues, and various circumstances attach us to our fellow creatures, when we mix with them, and view the same objects, that are never thought of in acquiring a hasty unnatural knowledge of the world."
"Besides, even in this area, things are capricious; there is material that 'revives' and material that does not 'revive' in the wash, spots that come out and others that persist, objects that break on their own, dust that grows like plants."
"She gives her experienced advice even to those around her who do not seek it."
"La possession de soi me"
"Like the child, the girl wears herself out in scenes and rages, she makes herself ill, she manifests signs of hysteria to try to attract attention and be someone who counts."
"By the time she was arrested, Prudence Crandall had made such a mark on the epoch that even in apparent defeat, she emerged as a symbol of victory."
"Women formed clubs; in they totaled about million members."
"However, for a woman to accomplish her femininity, she is required to be object and prey; that is, she must renounce her claims as a sovereign subject."
"The previously mentioned episode of Margaret Garner, a fugitive slave who killed her own daughter and attempted suicide herself when she was captured by slavecatchers, is a case in point."
"Every movement threatens her with more thankless work: a child's somersault is a tear to sew up."
"A slavish bondage to parents cramps every faculty of the mind; and Mr. Locke very judiciously observes, that if the mind be curbed and humbled too much in children; if their spirits be abased and broken much by too strict an hand over them; they lose all their vigour and industry."
"I perfectly coincide in opinion with this writer, for I verily believe, that few of either sex were ever despised for certain vices without deserving to be despised."
"Her acquaintance have observed, that this was the consequence of new fangled notions the new fangled notions of ease and cleanliness."
"He even went so far as to encourage continued civil rights protests and demonstrations."
"The line of rocks when approaching Arbois and coming from Dole by the main road was, I believe, a touching and clear image for me of tilde's soul.'"
"The male does not do violence to the species, because the species can only perpetuate itself by renewal; it would perish if ova and sperm did not meet; but the female whose job it is to protect the egg encloses it in herself, and her body that constitutes a shelter for the egg removes it from the male's fertilizing action; there is thus a resistance that has to be broken down, and so by penetrating the egg the male realizes himself as activity."
"Especially at evening time, when the shutters are closed, woman feels like a queen; the light shed at noon by the universal sun disturbs her; at night she is no longer dispossessed, because she does away with that which she does not possess; from under the lamp shade she sees a light that is her own and that illuminates her abode alone: nothing else exists."
"Between these clearly fixed poles a multitude of ambiguous figures were yet to be defined, the pitiful, the detestable, sinners, victims, coquettes, the weak, the angelic, the devilish."
"And, till they are, women will govern them by the most direct means, neglecting their dulldomestic duties, to catch the pleasure that is on the wing of time."
"L' rotomanie (Erotomania)."
"But there was one scar she persistently refused to explain, saying, whenever she was asked about it, 'White men are as low as dogs, child, stay away from them.'"
"Never had I drunk with such delight."
"We cannot really know what the word 'happiness' means, and still less what authentic values it covers; there is no way to measure the happiness of others, and it is always easy to call a situation that one would like to impose on others happy:"
"But to be passionate is always to desire."
", she gives humus, sap, tangible beauty, and the world's soul to man; she can hold the keys to poetry; she can be mediator between this world and the beyond: grace or Pythia, star or witch, she opens the door to the supernatural, the surreal; she is destined to immanence; and through her passivity she doles out peace and harmony: but should she refuse this role"
"Woman's drama lies in this conflict between the fundamental claim of every subject, which always posits itself as essential, and the demands of a situation that constitutes her as inessential."
"Over the years to come, this anarchist organization's newspaper, the Socialist, would publish her articles and poems, and Parsons would also become an active organizer for the Chicago Working Women's Union."
"It has already been pointed out that for many vegetables and some primitive animals, among them mollusks, gamete specification does not lead to individual specification, as they produce both ova and sperm."
"Then man will owe her tenderness and infinite gratitude. '"
"I aim at being useful, and sincerity will render me unaffected; for wishing rather to persuade by the force of my arguments, than dazzle by the elegance of my language, I shall not waste my time in rounding periods, nor in fabricating the turgid bombast of artificial feelings, which, coming from the head, never reach the heart."
"Magic, said Alain, is the spirit lurking in things; an action is magic when it emanates from a passivity instead of being produced by an agent; men have always considered woman precisely as the immanence of the given; if she produces harvests and children, it is not because she wills it; she is not subject, transcendence, or creative power, but an object charged with fluids."
"Woman escapes from the grip of the species by one more difficult crisis; between forty five and fifty, the phenomena of menopause, the opposite of those of puberty, occur."
"In Dr. Smith's Theory of Moral Sentiments, I have found a general character of people of rank and fortune, that in my opinion, might with the greatest propriety be applied to the female sex."
"For whilst rank and titles are held of the utmost importance, before which Genius must hide its diminished head, it is, with a few exceptions, very unfortunate for a nation when a man of abilities, without rank or property, pushes himself forward to notice."
"Moments women consider revelations are those where they discover they are in harmony with a reality based on peace with one's self."
"In becoming a housewife and mother, woman gave up her free getaways into fields and woods, she preferred the calm cultivation of the kitchen garden, she tamed flowers and put them in vases: yet she is still exalted by moonlights and sunsets."
"After viewing objects in this light, it would not be very fanciful to imagine, that this world was a stage on which a pantomime is daily performed for the amusement of superiour beings."
"I remember to have met with a sentence, in a book of education that made me smile."
"Certain peoples imagine the presence of a serpent in the vagina that would bite the spouse during the breaking of the hymen; terrifying virtues are given to virginal blood, linked to menstrual blood, and capable of ruining the male's vigor."
"Many of them are horrified at the idea of sharing their secret with those around them."
"Many of them suffer from this; with a life already behind them, they feel the same distress as adolescent boys whose lives have not yet opened up; nothing is calling them,"
"Brutally begun and poorly treated, the miscarriage, often more painful than an ordinary delivery, is accompanied by nervous disorders that can verge on epileptic fits, sometimes provoke serious internal illnesses, and bring on fatal hemorrhaging."
"Her children have her love, and her brightest hopes are beyond the grave, where her imagination often strays."
"First, many girls are ignorant of male anatomy until an advanced age."
"It concerns a forty eight year old woman, Marie Yvonne, who makes the following confession:"
"As racism developed more durable roots within white women's organizations, so too did the sexist cult of motherhood creep into the very movement whose announced aim was the elimination of male supremacy."
"For her to consent to it without regret, these small holocausts must spark some joy or pleasure somewhere."
"The history of women's struggle for education in the United States reached a true peak when Black and white women together led the post Civil War battle against illiteracy in the South."
"Unfortunately, Brownmiller is not the only contemporary writer on rape who has suffered the influence of racist ideology."
"She cheerfully accepts these lies because they invite her to take the easy slope: and that is the worst of the crimes committed against her; from her childhood and throughout her life, she is spoiled, she is corrupted by the fact that this resignation, tempting to any existent anxious about her freedom, is meant to be her vocation; if one encourages a child to be lazy by entertaining him all day, without giving him the occasion to study, without showing him its value, no one will say when he reaches the age of man that he chose to be incapable and ignorant; this is how the woman is raised, without ever being taught the necessity of assuming her own existence; she readily lets herself count on the protection, love, help, and guidance of others; she lets herself be fascinated by the hope of being able to realize her being without doing anything."
"It is sometimes piously claimed that the poverty of language makes it necessary for the mystic to borrow this erotic vocabulary; but she also has only one body, and she borrows from earthly love not only words but also physical attitudes; she has the same behavior when offering herself to God as offering herself to a man."
"Shortly thereafter the National Typographers became the second union to admit women, and in the Revolution's offices, the Women's Typographical Union, Local was established."
"The horror that this inspires has repercussions on her organism and increases her disorders and pains."
"For example, nothing seems more questionable to me than a catchphrase that dooms the new world to uniformity and then to boredom."
"The crowns we give ourselves are the only ones worth being worn,' says the king in Pasipha."
"Thus the missionary work for the emancipation of woman in 'the land of the free and the home of the brave' was then and there inaugurated."
"These observations all branch out of a general one, which I have before made, and which cannot be too often insisted upon, for, speaking of men, women, or professions"
"The difficult problem facing the husband is this: if he 'titillates his wife too lasciviously,' she might be scandalized or outraged; it seems this fear paralyzes American husbands, among others, especially in college educated couples, says the Kinsey Report, because wives, more conscious of themselves, are more deeply inhibited."
"but it is so awkward in this place"
"The analysis of these phenomena has been advanced in the last few years by comparing the phenomena occurring in women with those in the higher monkeys, especially for the Rh factor. '"
"Customs remained strict in principle: girls receive no more than a cursory education; they are married off or sent to a convent without being consulted."
"As women labor leaders began to argue, working women could use the vote to demand better wages and improved conditions on the job."
"This is what Colette's Vagabond admits: I must confess that, in allowing this man to return tomorrow, I was giving way to my desire to keep, not an admirer, not a friend, but an eager spectator of my life and my person. '"
"If a change is suggested to her, she throws her arms up: '"
"As long as the woman acts like a slave and the reflection of the man to whom she 'gives herself,' she must recognize the fact that her infidelities wrest her from her husband more radically than do his reciprocal infidelities."
"Nonetheless, she bitterly and ceaselessly needs to prove this need he has for her; she demands he take care of her without respite: if he does not do it spontaneously, she corners him:"
"I've always been stupefied that she didn't make her voice heard, that she didn't think of taking every possible advantage, the immense advantage of the two irresistible and priceless inflexions given to her, one for talking to men during love, the other that commands all of a child's trust What clout, what future would this great cry of warning and refusal from woman have had When will we see a woman simply as woman perform quite a different miracle of extending her arms between those who are about to grapple to say: You are brothers.'"
"Sometimes the man himself plays the role of devoted servant; thus did Lewes create for George Eliot"
"Besides, she cheats not only out of concerted, deliberate ruse."
"Cinema in particular, which subjects the star to the director, allows her no invention, no progress, in creative activity."
"White women did not respond to these appeals en masse until the Association of Southern Women for the Prevention of Lynching was founded in under the leadership of Jessie Daniel Ames."
"Psychoanalysts following Freud who think that the mere discovery of the penis would be sufficient to produce a trauma seriously misunderstand the child's mentality; it is much less rational than they seem to think, it does not establish clear cut categories and is not bothered by contradictions."
"It was not, however, the mechanical selection of limbs and features, but the ebullition of an heated fancy that burst forth; and the fine senses and enlarged understanding of the artist selected the solid matter, which he drew into this glowing focus."
"Balzac, Physiology of Marriage: 'Do not trouble yourself in any way about her murmurings, her cries, her pains"
"After their maidenish bashfulness is once lost, I, in fact, have generally observed, that women fall into old habits; and treat their husbands as they did their sisters or female acquaintance."
"While girls are yet young, however, they are in a capacity to study agreeable gesture, a pleasing modulation of voice, an easy carriage and behaviour; as well as to take the advantage of gracefully adapting their looks and attitudes to time, place, and occasion."
"But the scope of the verb to be must be understood; bad faith means giving it a substantive value, when in fact it has the sense of the Hegelian dynamic: to be is to have become, to have been made as one manifests oneself."
"A passage in The Girls is particularly telling."
"As long as artificial insemination is not widely practiced, a woman might desire to become pregnant but be unable to because either she does not have relations with men, or her husband is sterile, or she is unable to conceive."
"My caller rose with red cheeks and flashing eyes. '"
"S.S.R. Close to million are members of unions."
"To urinate she has to squat down, remove some clothes, and above all hide, a shameful and uncomfortable servitude."
"Stekel adds that 'for many women, the descent into animality is the condition for orgasm.'"
"The moral drama usually begins before the onset of the physiological phenomena, and it does not end until long after they have been eliminated."
"Going back to first principles, vice skulks, with all its native deformity, from close investigation; but a set of shallow reasoners are always exclaiming that these arguments prove too much, and that a measure rotten at the core may be expedient."
"I left my parents to live with a friend I met at a dance, I understood right away that she wanted to love me like a man"
"We categorically reject the idea of a psychophysiological parallelism; the bases of this doctrine have definitively and long been weakened."
"Otto Rank brought to light the mirror double relation in myths and dreams."
"Little by little, social legislation takes shape, and health guarantees are set up for women's work; seats are required for salesgirls, long shifts at outdoor display counters are prohibited, and so on."
"Wells, she might have realized that a noncommittal stand on racism implied that lynchings and mass murders by the thousands could be considered a neutral issue."
"The pernicious tendency of those books, in which the writers insidiously degrade the sex, whilst they are prostrate before their personal charms, cannot be too often or too severely exposed."
"She is a womb, an ovary; she is a female: this word is enough to define her."
"She will consider herself at a disadvantage only when she compares herself with man."
"Precisely because the male caste enjoys superiority, man can hold many individual women in affectionate esteem: a woman is easy to love; she has, first of all, the privilege of introducing her lover to a world different from his own and one that he is pleased to explore at her side; she fascinates, she amuses, at least for a little while; and then, because her situation is limited and subordinate, all her qualities seem like conquests while her errors are excusable."
"In any case, however deferential and courteous a man might be, the first penetration is always a rape."
"A great man's prestige is weakened; and even more, marriage shatters the hero's magnificent solitude; he 'needs not to be distracted from his own self.'"
"As a result, both employers and state authorities acquired a compelling economic interest in increasing the prison population. '"
"In the first case, it is mainly a matter of friends opening their hearts to each other, exchanging confidences; the most passionate proof of confidence is to show one's intimate diary to the chosen one; short of sexual embraces, friends exchange extreme signs of tenderness and often give to each other, in indirect ways, a physical token of their feelings: thus Natasha burns her arm with a red hot ruler to prove her love for Sonya; mostly they call each other thousands of affectionate names and exchange ardent letters."
"At the war's peak, they had more than doubled their numbers in industry."
"Either she stiffens in his arms and inflicts the insult of her frigidity on him; or she shows herself to be capricious and coquettish, imposing on him the attitude of suppliant"
"Some were literally in ecstasy, singling out almost every word and clapping and shouting with a fervor that made their faces turn poppy red' (Aux Ecoutes, April."
"My friends gave me art objects, statues, cars When I get into my sheets naked, it reminds me of old times."
"to go out, to entertain, she 'dresses up.'"
"In vain I told myself that every woman had children"
"They only, therefore, see and feel in the gross, and continually pine after variety, finding every thing that is simple, insipid."
"Here is a contradiction that shakes their pedestal, darkens the sky."
"Communists bore a special responsibility toward Black women."
"Once he was in Paris, what he wanted the most ardently was a 'charming wife; we will adore each other, she will know my soul.'"
"Almost universally mentioned in the white teachers' observations was the former slaves' unyielding commitment to knowledge."
"Or, supposing that this is not always the consequence, a future state of existence is scarcely taken into the reckoning when only negative virtues are cultivated."
"In concrete reality, women manifest themselves in many different ways; but each of the myths built around woman tries to summarize her as a whole; each is supposed to be unique"
"I get undressed, I am naked and am struck by the beauty of my body as if I had never seen it."
"Title usually kept in French."
"An ex slave described such a case on the plantation where he lived: One young woman did not, like the others, leave her child at the end of the row, but had contrived a sort of rude knapsack, made of a piece of coarse linen cloth, in which she fastened her child, which was very young, upon her back; and in this way carried it all day, and performed her task at the hoe with the other people."
"How could van Gogh have been born woman?"
"And there are even periods of vitalistic romanticism that affirm the triumph of Life over Spirit: so the earth's and woman's magic fertility appear to be even more marvelous than the male's concerted works; so"
"This very overseer, Mr. Brooks, killed in this manner a girl named Mary."
"It was not long before I gave her others, concerning her face powder, the color of her lipstick, a hard line she penciled around the edge of her beautifully shaped eyelids. '"
"As she has no time to take care of her health, even during her pregnancies, she loses her shape quickly and is prematurely withered and worn out, sapped by illnesses."
"But to find a home in oneself, one must first have realized oneself in works or acts."
"So that to break the spirit, allowed to become vicious at home, a child is sent to school; and the methods taken there, which must be taken to keep a number of children in order, scatter the seeds of almost every vice in the soil thus forcibly torn up."
"Today she only becomes an other peer by losing her mystical aura."
"And why was he thus anxious?"
"Emerson and Lincoln supported the feminist movement."
"The shortage, if not absence, of public discussion about the feasibility of transforming housework into a social possibility bears witness to the blinding powers of bourgeois ideology."
"However, Montherlant is in no way an Oriental sultan; in the first place, he does not have the sensuality."
"In Persia, polygamy is customary; woman is bound to absolute obedience to the husband her father chooses for her as soon as she is nubile; but she is more respected than among most Oriental peoples; incest is not forbidden, and marriage takes place frequently among sisters and brothers; she is in charge of educating the children up to the age of seven for boys and until marriage for girls."
"Saint Blandine, white and bloody in the paws of lions, Snow White lying as if dead in a glass coffin, Sleeping Beauty, Atala fainting, a whole cohort of tender heroines beaten, passive, wounded, on their knees, humiliated, teach their younger sisters the fascinating prestige of martyred, abandoned, and resigned beauty."
"When women are concretely called to action, when they identify with the designated aims, they are as strong and brave as men."
"This is the most exciting moment I have ever known."
"I knew one such girl, intelligent and talented but who had chosen to think herself a 'faraway princess':"
"She could also be imagined as a happy prostitute, a Moll Flanders, as Daniel Defoe portrayed her: but she would never have run a theater and written plays."
"Balzac describes the wedding night in these words: '"
", I felt it avidly as a little child"
"Rousseau, respectable visionary!"
"They see in their male's violence the sign of his virility and submit to him even more docilely."
"Slave labor being far more efficient than work that woman could supply, she lost the economic role she played within the tribe."
"This does not trouble her in the least."
"Who is she who stands before me, gentler than the breeze, like the moon among the young foliage?"
"If, on the other hand, the woman deviates from society, she returns to Nature and the devil, she triggers uncontrollable and evil forces within the group."
"That was the opinion of William Lloyd Garrison, whose assessment of Train was shared by such figures as Lucy Stone and Henry Blackwell."
"Chastity, modesty, public spirit, and all the noble train of virtues, on which social virtue and happiness are built, should be understood and cultivated by all mankind, or they will be cultivated to little effect."
"In truth, there is never only one determining factor; it is always a question of a choice made from a complex whole, contingent on a free decision; no sexual destiny governs an individual's life: on the contrary, his eroticism expresses his general attitude to existence."
"In a completed, renewed world, the couple would be indissoluble, through an absolute and reciprocal gift: Since the beloved is all, how could there be any room for another?"
"The same love of pleasure, fostered by the whole tendency of their education, gives a trifling turn to the conduct of women in most circumstances: for instance, they are ever anxious about secondary things; and on the watch for adventures, instead of being occupied by duties."
"There are, of course, many exceptions: but the mother's role in bringing up a boy cannot be studied here."
"In the novel where she portrayed herself as Val rie,"
"Unable to grasp any thing great, is it surprising that they find the reading of history a very dry task, and disquisitions addressed to the understanding, intolerably tedious, and almost unintelligible?"
"In her fevers, shivers, dampness, and uncertain states, her body takes on a new and unsettling dimension."
"We do not even know if, in such different living conditions from today's, woman's musculature or her respiratory system was not as developed as man's."
"The entire household was governed only by the imaginary orders of the husband, that is, by Pierre's wishes, which Natasha tried to guess."
"She went around town, and the things she saw and heard seemed to be left somehow unfinished, and there was the tightness in her that would not break."
"At their convention that year Anna Garlin Spencer delivered an address entitled 'Duty to the Women of Our New Possessions.'"
"take the part of women."
"Daydreaming can take on a morbid form and invade the whole existence, as in the following case: Marie.… an intelligent and dreamy child, entering puberty at fourteen, had a psychic crisis with delusions of grandeur. '"
"Disguised as a man during the Fronde, Mme de Chevreuse, after a long excursion on horseback, was unmasked because of bloodstains seen on the saddle."
"Today as well, every psychoanalyst works at adapting Freudian concepts to suit himself; he attempts compromises; for example, a contemporary psychoanalyst writes: 'Whenever there is a complex, there are by definition several components"
"The often encountered word 'blood' in expressions like 'same blood children,' 'pure blood,' and 'mixed blood' sometimes orients the childish imagination; it is supposed that marriage is accompanied by some solemn transfusion."
"It would be rash to deduce from such an observation that woman's place is in the home: but there are rash people."
"I may be asked, but to loiter with easy grace; surely you would not condemn them all to suckle fools, and chronicle small beer!"
"And thus have I argued."
"Of course, this attitude is not defined by a reflective choice; but it is not necessary to think a situation to exist it."
"Even the restraint she lays them under, if well directed, will increase their affection, instead of lessening it; because a state of dependence being natural to the sex, they perceive themselves formed for obedience."
"As for bourgeois women, a few rallied ardently to the cause of freedom:"
"The idea of the woman partner or the woman as a regenerating force persists throughout the nineteenth century in Victor Hugo."
"Most accept today that penis envy manifests itself in very different ways depending on the individual case."
"However, homosexuality is not always an entirely satisfactory solution for adomineering woman; since she seeks to affirm herself, it vexes her not to fully realize her feminine possibilities; heterosexual relations seem to her at once an impoverishment and an enrichment; in repudiating the limitations implied by her sex, she may limit herself in another way."
"Numerous studies agree on this point: many girls let themselves be deflowered by the first comer and then find it natural to give themselves to anyone who comes along."
"The main address, delivered by Carrie Chapman Catt, pointed to three 'great obstacles' to woman suffrage: militarism, prostitution and the inertia in the growth of democracy which has come as a reaction following the aggressive movements that with possibly ill advised haste enfranchised the foreigner, the negro and the indian."
"You have a big hole, you tricked me.'"
"One male against all the others protects the former; the latter is defended by all against the exclusive tyranny of each one."
"After her death, the mystery was finally solved: She received that scar at the hands of her master's youngest son, a boy of about eighteen years at the time she conceived their child, my grandmother Ellen."
"For if it be allowed that women were destined by Providence to acquire human virtues, and by the exercise of their understandings, that stability of character which is the firmest ground to rest our future hopes upon, they must be permitted to turn to the fountain of light, and not forced to shape their course by the twinkling of a mere satellite."
"Thus we see that myths are explained in large part by the use man makes of them."
"Men will probably still insist that woman ought to have more modesty than man; but it is not dispassionate reasoners who will most earnestly oppose my opinion."
"This moral aspect of the drama is more or less intensely felt depending on the circumstances."
"My sister in law came back from Versailles and added her voice to the choir of questions, saying that she had seen innumerable people disfigured because of unsatisfied longings I finally got frightened myself I tried to think of what would please me most and couldn't think of a thing."
"If Black men possessed an animalistic urge to rape, argued Douglass, this alleged rape instinct would have certainly been activated when white women were left unprotected by their men who were fighting in the Confederate Army."
"For only insipid lifeless beauty is produced by a servile copy of even beautiful nature."
"He was also, as he himself wrote in an article published in the Liberator, 'a silent listener.'"
"Oppressed and submerged, she becomes a stranger to herself because she is a stranger to the rest of the world."
"The surgical and dirty perception that penetration had in the eyes of the child returns if it is not carried out with the arousal, desire, and pleasure a woman in love will joyfully experience as union and fusion with the beloved: this is what happens with the concerted use of prophylactics."
"The night before the funeral, my grandfather came to sleep at our house."
"Must they be taught always to be pleasing?"
"Judy, the heroine of Dusty Answer, has the same endearing quality."
"One can understand, then, that males have no scruples about denying their companion sexual happiness; and it even seems advantageous to them to deny woman the temptations of desire along with the autonomy of pleasure."
"The female is female by virtue of a certain lack of qualities,' Aristotle said."
"In songs and tales, the young man sets off to seek the woman; he fights against dragons, he combats giants; she is locked up in a tower, a palace, a garden, a cave, chained to a rock, captive, put to sleep: she is waiting."
"is let herself go, let herself be fulfilled."
"The exact question is why she should be defined in relation to the man."
"Unfortunately for her, the young woman is keen to hold on to her rights: the grandmother is authorized only to play the role of assistant that her elders formerly played with her; she feels dethroned; and besides she has to share this with her son in law's mother, of whom she is naturally jealous."
"This brood of folly shows how mistaken they are who, if they allow women to leave their harams, do not cultivate their understanding, in order to plant virtues in their hearts."
"Woman's situation encourages her to seek salvation in literature and in art."
"For this distinction is, I am firmly persuaded, the foundation of the weakness of character ascribed to woman; is the cause why the understanding is neglected, whilst accomplishments are acquired with sedulous care: and the same cause accounts for their preferring the graceful before the heroic virtues."
"Without a doubt, they are economically independent only within an economically oppressed class; and besides, tasks carried out in a factory do not free them from household chores."
"Assimilating the woman to the slave is a mistake; among slaves there were women, but free women have always existed, that is, women invested with religious and social dignity: they accepted man's sovereignty, and he did not feel threatened by a revolt that could transform him in turn into an object."
"He made me sit next to him on a bench."
"She was not clumsy, and yet none of her movements seemed quite movement she put too much strength into the effort.'"
"Each massage brought about several orgasms."
"Thus, in one of his articles in Le Figaro Litt raire in September."
"Today, more than before, woman knows the joys of shaping her body by sports, gymnastics, swimming, massage, and diets; she decides on her weight, her figure, and her complexion; modern beauty treatments allow her to combine beauty and activity: she has the right to toned muscles, she refuses to put on weight; in physical culture, she affirms herself as subject; this gives her a kind of liberation from her contingent flesh; but this liberation easily lapses back into dependence."
"The consolidation of African families in the industrialized cities is perceived as a menace becausedomestic life might become a base for a heightened level of resistance to Apartheid."
"Thus the independent woman today is divided between her professional interests and the concerns of her sexual vocation; she has trouble finding her balance; if she does, it is at the price of concessions, sacrifices, and juggling that keep her in constant tension."
", I cannot help lamenting that women of a superiour cast have not a road open by which they can pursue more extensive plans of usefulness and independence."
"For a shadow that forever escapes him?"
"The resurgence of racism during the mid has been accompanied by a resurrection of the myth of the Black rapist."
"Later, however, these figures underwent a drastic revision."
"When she decides to paint or write just to fill the emptiness of her days, paintings and essays will be treated as 'ladies' work'; she will devote little time or care to them, and they will be worth about as much."
"The solution of women picking up a partner for a night or an hour assuming that the woman, endowed with a strong temperament and having overcome all her inhibitions, can consider it without disgust is far more dangerous for her than for the male."
"I imagined my brother in law's feelings"
"Yet they are told, at the same time, that they are only like angels when they are young and beautiful; consequently, it is their persons, not their virtues, that procure them this homage."
"She is dead and resuscitated, she views the earth with a gaze that has pierced the secrets of the beyond, and she thinks she is flying toward uncharted heights."
"Not yet acceptable to the makers of public opinion, the issue of women's equality, now embodied in an embryonic movement, supported by Black people who were fighting for their own freedom, established itself as an indelible element of public life in the United States."
"The woman who is faithful to the father of her children demands respect, and should not be treated like a prostitute; though I readily grant, that if it be necessary for a man and woman to live together in order to bring up their offspring, nature never intended that a man should have more than one wife."
"Again: They are our country women they are our sisters; and to us, as women, they have a right to look for sympathy with their sorrows, and effort and prayer for their rescue. '"
"At the convention it was Belle Kearney from Mississippi whose remarks most blatantly confirmed the dangerous alliance between racism and sexism."
"Or he tries to give coitus a decent image. '"
"Slaveowners naturally sought to ensure that their 'breeders' would bear children as often as biologically possible."
"Black women, of course, were virtually invisible within the protracted campaign for woman suffrage."
"One time, in a hotel room."
"This adventure made my mother decide to initiate me, without forgetting menstruation at the same time."
"My heart has loitered in the midst of the group, and has even throbbed with sympathetic emotion, when the scraping of the well known foot has raised a pleasing tumult."
"The surgery had been ordered by the funded Montgomery Community Action Committee after it was discovered that Depo Provera, a drug previously administered to the girls as a birth prevention measure, caused cancer in test animals."
"The slightest criticism or gibe destabilizes her."
"she found, to her surprise, a white and gold living room on the ground floor, but a first floor with barely even rough cast walls, as abandoned as a loft the bedrooms were icy cold and prompted no thoughts of either love or sweet sleep Sido, who longed for friends and an innocent and cheerful social life, found on her estate only servants, cunning farmers She filled the big house with flowers, had the dark kitchen whitewashed, oversaw in person the preparation of the Flemish dishes, kneaded cakes with raisins and looked forward to having her first child."
"As in primitive civilizations, the amorous act is a service she has the right to be paid for more or less directly."
"The strictest taboo of all concerning woman in her impure state is the prohibition of sexual intercourse with her."
"Describing this very process will be the object of Volume of this study."
"though they have not hitherto had a political existence, yet, have they not illicitly had great sway?"
"It is this confusion with an unreal object necessary, perfect like a hero in a novel, like a portrait or a bust that flatters her; she strives to alienate herself in it and so to appear frozen, justified to herself."
"It is not only out of fear of public opinion that so many women force their seduced daughter to have an abortion, to abandon the child, to do away with it: they are only too happy to keep her from motherhood; they obstinately wish to keep the privilege for themselves."
"; she is 'right thinking'; in former times she would readily send her daughters to a convent school, and as she got older, she even went to Mass and openly converted."
"she exclaimed with deliberately racist arrogance."
"As it was supposed, in some mysterious way, that the brain secreted thinking, it seemed very important to decide if the average weight of the female brain was larger or smaller than that of the male."
"His beautiful blond hair cascaded in heavy curls onto his shoulders"
"There is prudence in her modesty."
"Even civilizations that ignore the father's generative role demand that she be under the protection of a husband; and she also has the function of satisfying the male's sexual needs and caring for the home."
"She did not count her sacrifices because she was busy making me accept them,' he says cruelly about Ell nore."
"; this moist trace on her cheeks, this burning in her eyes, are the tangible presence of her suffering soul; gentle on one's skin, barely salty on one's tongue, tears are also a tender and bitter caress; the face burns under a stream of mild water; tears are both complaint and consolation, fever and soothing coolness."
"It then loses the venerable aspect of a duty, and assumes the fantastic form of a whim."
"It was in according to her biographer's research, that Lucy Parsons formally joined the Communist party."
"Some men take on a feminine appearance because of late development of their male organs, and sometimes girls as well athletic ones in particular change into boys."
"I also suppose the husband to be virtuous; or she is still more in want of independent principles."
"that pitiless void, when I will have proved to him his nothingness and the nothingness of myself, when there will no longer be in his nothingness a secret that my secret cannot confirm. '"
"The love of God calls in us on the same faculty as the love of his creatures, it calls on our feeling that we are not complete in ourselves and that the supreme God in which we are consummated is someone outside ourselves.'"
"But, till more understanding preponderate in society, there will ever be a want of heart and taste, and the harlot's rouge will supply the place of that celestial suffusion which only virtuous affections can give to the face."
"When serfdom is abolished, poverty remains; in small rural communities and among artisans, spouses live on an equal footing; woman is neither a thing nor a servant:"
"After all, man is also flesh for woman; and woman is other than a carnal object; and for each person and in each experience the flesh is takes on singular significations."
"while their absence of logic, stubborn ignorance, and inability to grasp the real should be denounced; they are neither good observers nor psychologists; they neither know how to see things nor understand human beings; their mystery is a trap, their unfathomable treasures have the depth of nothingness; they have nothing to give man and can only harm him."
"In the infinite anguish of ministering to the needs of the men and children around her, she was performing the only labor of the slave community which could not be directly and immediately claimed by the oppressor."
"If I touch one piano note four times in the same piece, I accept growing and not being loved by anyone.'"
"The eccentric orbit of the comet never influences astronomical calculations respecting the invariable order established in the motion of the principal bodies of the solar system."
"It is time to separate unchangeable morals from local manners."
"If, as Karl Marx said, 'labor in a white skin can never be free as long as labor in a black skin is branded,' it was also true, as Angelina Grimke lucidly insisted, that the democratic struggles of the times especially the fight for women's equality could be most effectively waged in association with the struggle for Black Liberation."
"They will search all their lives for an ideal impossible to reach."
"In truth, nature is no more an immutable given than is historical reality."
"The female nurturer, devoted and patient, turns into an avid and devouring beast."
"Yet, how frequently have I indignantly heard servants imperiously called to put children to bed, and sent away again and again, because master or miss hung about mamma, to stay a little longer."
"Shame increases in the frequent cases in which she suffers from involuntary urinary emissions, when bursting out laughing, for example; control is worse than for boys."
"Ten years later Ida."
"In particular, when he acquires ownership of land, he also claims woman as property."
"Walking on water in a dream was far less tiring than moving forward on earthly land in reality."
"But, with respect to propriety of behaviour, excepting one class of females, women have evidently the advantage."
"This is the joy cile Sauvage expresses in her poems in L' me en bourgeon (The Soul in Bud): You belong to me as dawn to the plain"
"I would not fear boys"
"Maintaining means denying the dispersion of instants, thereby affirming continuity in the course of their outpouring; creating means exploding an irreducible and separate present within a temporal unity, and it is also true that for the female it is the continuity of life that seeks to realize itself in spite of separation, while separation into new and individualized forces is brought about by male initiative; he can affirm himself in his autonomy; he integrates the specific energy into his own life; by contrast, female individuality is fought by the interest of the species; she seems possessed by outside forces: alienated."
"I have repeatedly asserted, and produced what appeared to me irrefragable arguments drawn from matters of fact, to prove my assertion, that women cannot, by force, be confined todomestic concerns; for they will however ignorant, intermeddle with more weighty affairs, neglecting private duties only to disturb, by cunning tricks, the orderly plans of reason which rise above their comprehension."
"They are not held back by their clothes.'"
"Men will not become moral when they only build airy castles in a future world to compensate for the disappointments which they meet with in this; if they turn their thoughts from relative duties to religious reveries."
"The appearance of menstruation drove her half mad; believing that she was the only one in the world having the monstrosity of pubic hair, she labored up to the age of twenty 'to rid herself of this savage decoration by depilation.'"
"This story was most obviously a defense against real experiences that she feared."
"although Diderot and Benjamin Constant shed rivers of tears, men stopped crying when custom forbade it for them."
"In the seventh century.c., Archilochus writes biting epigrams against women; Simonides of Amorgos says, 'Women are the greatest evil God ever created: if they sometimes seem useful, they soon change into trouble for their masters.'"
"Dressing is not only adornment: it expresses, as we have said, woman's social situation."
"They must be subject, all their lives, to the most constant and severe restraint, which is that of decorum: it is, therefore, necessary to accustom them early to such confinement, that it may not afterward cost them too dear; and to the suppression of their caprices, that they may the more readily submit to the will of others."
"Even the most radical white abolitionists, basing their opposition to slavery on moral and humanitarian grounds, failed to understand that the rapidly developing capitalism of the North was also an oppressive system."
"If and when a historian sets the record straight on the experiences of enslaved Black women, she (or he) will have performed an inestimable service."
"The exclamations then which any advice respecting female learning, commonly produces, especially from pretty women, often arise from envy."
"But it is especially striking that menstrual blood's effects are linked to the ideas of cream going sour, mayonnaise that does not take, fermentation, and decomposition; it is also claimed that it is apt to cause fragile objects to break; to spring violin and harp strings; but above all it influences organic substances that are midway between matter and life; this is less because it is blood than because it emanates from genital organs; even without knowing its exact function, people understood it to be linked to the germination of life:"
"The main character is a young Senegalese woman who, after a search for work, becomes a governess for a French family living in Dakar."
"New Zealand gave woman full rights in."
"X.… adores me, he's wildly jealous, he wants me to wear a mask when I go out; but he's such a strange being and so suspicious of love that he keeps me in the hallway and doesn't invite me in when I ring his bell.'"
"I was having fun, and then little by little, as if in spite of myself, I became bewitched; it was like a dream I was living"
"After thus cramping a woman's mind, if, in order to keep it fair, he has not made it quite a blank, he advises her to reflect, that a reflecting man may not yawn in her company, when he is tired of caressing her."
"In another film, The Razor's Edge, when the hero returns from India having acquired absolute wisdom, the only use he finds for it is to rescue a prostitute."
"Harper and Sojourner Truth were outnumbered by those who were not persuaded by Frederick Douglass' appeal for unity."
"The difference that distinguishes her from boys is a fact that she could assume in many ways."
"The loneliness of the household weighs on the woman just as routine tasks leave her head empty."
"Even integrated into society, the woman subtly exceeds its boundaries because she possesses the insidious generosity of Life."
"But he does not like difficulty; he is afraid of danger."
"The prevalence of sterilization abuse during the latter may be greater than ever before."
"I screamed at her to get out of there"
"She is therefore a slave of thedomain and of its master through the 'protection' of a husband who was imposed on her: few periods of history seem harsher for woman's lot."
"When the male gets sexual satisfaction from the woman, or when he satisfies her, he posits himself as the unique subject: imperious victor, generous donor, or both."
"And she is nothing other than what man decides; she is thus called 'the sex,' meaning that the male sees her essentially as a sexed being; for him she is sex, so she is it in the absolute."
"In all literature, a young man's first sexual intercourse is often upsetting to the point of inducing vomiting; and if, in truth, such a reaction is very rare, it is not by chance that it is so often described."
"If many nonprofessional women insist on extracting checks and gifts from their lovers making the man pay and paying him, as we will see further on, it is not out of cupidity alone: it is to change him into an instrument."
"She first seemed to think that when people die, they go to heaven and are reincarnated as babies."
"Indeed, if it were only on this account, the national education of women is of the utmost consequence; for what a number of human sacrifices are made to that moloch, prejudice!"
"And may I not lay some stress on this fact to prove, that when any power but reason curbs the free spirit of man, dissimulation is practised, and the various shifts of art are naturally called forth?"
"Dressing up and conversation largely satisfy this feminine taste for display."
"He covered my mouth with his hand and introduced his penis."
"If she is endowed with great prestige, she will be able to survive the ruin of her face and figure."
"They have acquired strength by absence and constitutional melancholy."
"Most feminine heroines are extravagant: adventurers or eccentrics notable less for their actions than for their unique destinies; take Joan of Arc, Mme Roland, and Flora Tristan: if they are compared with Richelieu, Danton, or Lenin, it is clear their greatness is mainly subjective; they are exemplary figures more than historical agents."
"By contrast, society even requires woman to make herself an erotic object."
"Perfectly reasonable, concerned by the success of her projects,' she focuses all of her ambition on making her husband a minister; 'her mind was arid'; careful and conformist, she always kept herself from love, she is incapable of a generous movement; when passion sets into this dry soul, it burns without illuminating her."
"I now begin to unfurl, in this scent, in this radiance, as a fern when its curled leaves unfurl"
"In this sense, the abolitionist campaign was a home where they could be valued for their concrete works."
"That woman is naturally weak, or degraded by a concurrence of circumstances is, I think, clear."
"The advocacy of women's rights could not be forbidden."
"But this very innocence is bland; when the adolescent girl decides to enter into life and becomes the Other, she hopes to rekindle the magic of the paternal gaze to her advantage; she demands the love and caresses of a divinity."
"In other words, working women needed the ballot in order to guarantee their very survival."
"And Comte foresees society's evolution as totally eliminating woman's work outside the family."
"This is, must be, the course of nature friendship or indifference inevitably succeeds love."
"There are two doctors appointed and paid by the town to visit the girls every week in order to discover if they have any disease or intimate illness."
"Even if she is severe on men whom she judges daily, she reveres Man nonetheless, and if she encounters him, she is ready to fall on her knees."
"He had a town band march by my door."
"And even a generous mother who sincerely wants the best for her child will, as a rule, think it wiser to make a 'true woman' of her, as that is the way she will be best accepted by society."
"She seemed to barely remember him, she was unaffected, indifferent, and witty."
"Like the child, the woman imagines good and evil in simple storybook images; Manichaeism reassures the mind by eliminating the anguish of choice; deciding between one scourge and a lesser one, between a benefit today and a greater benefit tomorrow, having to define by oneself what is defeat and what is victory: this means taking terrible risks; for the Manichaean, the wheat is clearly distinguishable from the chaff, and the chaff has to be eliminated; dust condemns itself, and cleanliness is the absolute absence of filth; cleaning means getting rid of waste and mud."
"And whosoever toucheth her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.'"
"Fatal passions, which have everdomineered over the race!"
"It is true, that great men seem to start up, as great revolutions occur, at proper intervals, to restore order, and to blow aside the clouds that thicken over the face of truth; but let more reason and virtue prevail in society, and these strong winds would not be necessary."
"A woman who teases male desire too blatantly is considered vulgar; but a woman who is seen to repudiate this is disreputable as well: she is seen as wanting to look like a man: she's a lesbian; or to single herself out: she's an eccentric; refusing her role as object, she defies society: she's an anarchist."
"Because they are not his own?"
"Among the great number of cases reported by psychiatrists, here is a typical one adapted from Ferdi re."
"Given the unceasing repression of women, 'no wonder,' said Herbert Aptheker, 'the Negro woman so often urged haste in slave plottings."
"In any case, a definite act is consummated, and the man's body remains intact:"
"Yet, the vacations, which do not fosterdomestic affections, continually disturb the course of study, and render any plan of improvement abortive which includes temperance; still, were they abolished, children would be entirely separated from their parents, and I question whether they would become better citizens by sacrificing the preparatory affections, by destroying the force of relationships that render the marriage state as necessary as respectable."
"Women must have religion; there must be women, 'real women,' to perpetuate religion."
"The Grimke sisters had previously criticized a number of female anti slavery societies for ignoring the condition of Black women and for sometimes manifesting blatantly racist prejudices."
"In the humiliation of God, she admires Man's fall: inert, passive, covered with sores, the crucified is the inverted image of the white and red martyr offered to wild beasts, to the knife, to males, and with whom the little girl has so often identified: she is thrown into confusion seeing that Man, Man God, has assumed his role."
"In the place of love, she will feel for her husband a tender and respectful sentiment called conjugal love; within the walls of her home she will be in charge of managing, she will enclose the world; she will perpetuate the human species into the future."
"The more she has succeeded in making her mark socially, the more willingly will people close their eyes; but she is severely scrutinized, especially in the provinces."
"The path of salvation for the emancipated host of black folk no longer lay through the kitchen door, with its wide hall and pillared yards beyond."
"The woman who, lost in happy adoration, neglected her personal appearance begins to worry about it again the moment she senses a threat."
"Domestic labor constituted what the English termed the 'sweating system'; in spite of constant work, the worker did not earn enough to make ends meet."
"Unfortunately, if she is married, her husband is too used to her frigidity; she can still seduce new lovers, but she is beginning to fade"
"Ignorance is a frail base for virtue!"
"Flesh is no longer filth: it is joy and beauty."
"Moreover, individual women came forth with equally outrageous stories."
"Due to her efforts, a women's committee was organized to raise money for the publication of a brochure to be distributed at the fair entitled 'The Reason Why the Colored American is not in the World's Columbian Exposition.'"
"When a woman ecstatically utters, 'This is a man!'"
"But it is vain to expect the present race of weak mothers either to take that reasonable care of a child's body, which is necessary to lay the foundation of a good constitution, supposing that it do not suffer for the sins of its fathers; or to manage its temper so judiciously that the child will not have, as it grows up, to throw off all that its mother, its first instructor, directly or indirectly taught, and unless the mind have uncommon vigour, womanish follies will stick to the character throughout life."
"And is it not very rational to conclude, that the women who have not been taught to respect the human nature of their own sex, in these particulars, will not long respect the mere difference of sex, in their husbands?"
"Until American and English common law did not deem it a crime unless it was scandalous and disturbed the peace."
"Alongside society women there are also actresses and prostitutes who enjoy great fame:"
"When the brake is insufficient, the young girl, while yielding to the lover, is horrified by the terrible danger he possesses in his loins."
"It is sometimes even assumed that slave women welcomed and encouraged the sexual attentions of white men."
"The obstacle created by menstruation, for example, has often been examined."
"Even if such a definitive rupture is rare, it is, on the contrary, common for a woman to become frigid, either with all men or with the one who made her pregnant."
"It is not done well; but you are surprised to find it done at all.'"
"These are the women who are amused by the reveries of the stupid novelists, who, knowing little of human nature, work up stale tales, and describe meretricious scenes, all retailed in a sentimental jargon, which equally tend to corrupt the taste, and draw the heart aside from its daily duties."
"However, thanks to this dowry custom, the widow no longer passes for a hereditary possession in the hands of her husband's heirs: she returns to her family's guardianship."
"I mention it because although it is philosophically and scientifically ruined, it still haunts a large number of minds: it has already been shown here that some people are carrying around antique vestiges of it."
"Stendhal considers Mme de Chasteller's hesitations and Mathilde de la Mole's inconsistencies with the same tender irony; so many detours, changes of mind, scruples, victories, and hidden defeats in order to reach simple and legitimate ends is for him the most delightful of comedies; there is drollery in these dramas because the actress is both judge and party, because she is her own dupe, and because she burdens herself with complicated paths where a decree would suffice for the Gordian knot to be cut; but they nonetheless show the most respectable concern that could torture a noble soul: she wants to remain worthy of her own esteem; she places her own approbation higher than that of others, and thus she realizes herself as an absolute."
"To preserve their beauty, and wear the flowery crown of the day, that gives them a kind of right to reign for a short time over the sex, they neglect to stamp impressions on their husbands' hearts, that would be remembered with more tenderness when the snow on the head began to chill the bosom, than even their virgin charms."
"On joue perdant (Playing a Losing Game)."
"It seems as if she wants to intentionally conjure up in her readers' imaginations armies of Black men, their penises erect, charging full speed ahead toward the most conveniently placed white women."
"Often, the two opposing groups concerned were once independent of each other; either they were not aware of each other in the past, or they accepted each other's autonomy; and some historical event subordinated the weaker to the stronger:"
"They say that no soul was made except in a life and in a mysterious relationship with other lives. '"
"The question of equality for women,' as Eleanor Flexner put it, was not 'a matter of abstract justice' for the Grimkes, 'but of enabling women to join in an urgent task.'"
"As the pregnancy proceeds, the relation between mother and fetus changes."
"True, I had the capacity I still have for wonder."
"This concern is often harmful for feminine friendships."
"forsaking hopeless competition, she entrusts the assurance of her happiness to a member of the superior caste."
"God, I can never forget …' Beryl flung up her head and began to sing again:"
"Lawrence, too, rejects the hypothesis of masculine inconstancy: Don Ram will always love the little Indian girl Teresa, who gave him her soul."
"There was something almost apologetic in her way of uttering her tender avowal, as if she would beg her listeners not to consider her too bizarre in her taste."
"In fact, 'women and workers both have oppression in common,' says Bebel."
"And first of all, woman has to retrieve herself; she has to learn to recognize herself through the hells she is destined to by the more than problematic view that man, in general, carries of her.'"
"Eugene Genovese published Roll, Jordan"
"It is that they lack the concrete means to organize themselves into a unit that could posit itself in opposition."
"Do you acknowledge that the power of looking into futurity and seeing things that are not, as if they were, is an attribute of the Creator?"
"Literal translation: 'different but equal.' ."
"She sinks so often into such nonsense because she has no grasp on the world; if she had to act, she would be forced to see clearly, whereas she can wait in the fog."
"The only significant steps toward endingdomestic slavery have in fact been taken in the existing socialist countries."
"He finds cause and effect in the relationship between his creating arm and the object of his creation: the seed planted germinates or not, while metal always reacts in the same way to fire, to tempering, and to mechanical treatment; this world of tools can be framed in clear concepts: rational thinking, logic, and mathematics are thus able to emerge."
"Native American Indians are special targets of government propaganda on sterilization."
"said Mme Mejerowsky."
"It can happen that in devoting herself to this double in whom she recognizes and transcends herself, the mother ends up totally alienating herself in her; she renounces herself, her only care is for her child's happiness; she will even be egotistical and hard toward the rest of the world; she runs the danger of becoming annoying to the one she adores, as did Mme de vign for Mme de Grignan; the disgruntled daughter will try to rid herself from such tyrannical devotion; often she is unsuccessful, and she lives her whole life as a child, frightened of responsibilities because she has been too 'sheltered.'"
"For, miserable beyond all names of misery is the condition of a being, who could be degraded without its own consent!"
"And these lines too: Today I can recognize that, bolstered by my soul and its harmonious powers, I have lived to the sound of my voice."
"According to Karen Horney, they also envy the opportunity to exhibit that the boy is granted."
"Never a moment's hesitation 'Poor Bernard!"
"At least some of them had learned to detect and challenge the injustices of male supremacy."
"She thus has to be described first as men dream of her since her being for men is one of the essential factors of her concrete condition."
"; the interior of living things is more impenetrable; the female womb is the symbol of immanence, of depth; it delivers its secrets in part as when, for example, pleasure shows on a woman's face, but it also holds them in; man catches life's obscure palpitations in his house without the mystery being destroyed by possession."
"For man is so constituted that he can only attain a proper use of his faculties by exercising them, and will not exercise them unless necessity, of some kind, first set the wheels in motion."
"But 'decision is a new spontaneity obtained through reflection, experienced in a purely ideal way, a spontaneity that precisely corresponds to that of falling in love."
"At times the lover wakes his mistress: it is to make love to her; she wakes him simply to keep him from sleeping, to keep him nearby, thinking only of her, there, closed up in the room, in the bed, in her arms like God in the tabernacle"
"If one grants that the inessential consciousness is also a transparent subjectivity, capable of carrying out the cogito, one grants that it is truly sovereign and reverts to the essential; for all reciprocity to seem impossible, it is necessary that the Other be another for itself, that its very subjectivity be affected by alterity; this consciousness, which would be alienated as consciousness, in its pure immanent presence, would obviously be a Mystery; it would be a Mystery in itself because it would be it for itself; it would be absolute Mystery."
"His generous person inspired in me a great love and an extreme fear,' says Mme de Noailles, speaking of her father. '"
"The American woman, trying to be an idol, makes herself the slave of her admirers, does not dress, live, or breathe other than through the man and for him."
"The greetings of affection in the morning are by these means more respectful, than the familiar tenderness which frequently prolongs the evening talk."
"With respect to the formation of the foetus in the womb, we are very ignorant; but it appears to me probable, that an accidental physical cause may account for this phenomenon, and prove it not to be a law of nature."
"Unfortunately, in light of the postwar developments, it appears that this resolution may have been motivated by the fear that (white) women might be left behind when the slaves emerged into the light of freedom."
"The common attachment and regard of a mother, nay, mere habit, will make her beloved by her children, if she does nothing to incur their hate."
"He does not wrest her from her immanence; she shapes his flesh, she supports him, she cares for him: she can do no more than create a situation that solely the child's freedom can transcend; when she invests in his future, it is again by proxy that she transcends herself through the universe and time; that is, once again she dooms herself to dependency."
"Women do not challenge the human condition because they have barely begun to be able to assume it entirely."
"In the human world, woman transposes the female animal's functions: she maintains life, she reigns over the zones of immanence; she transports the warmth and the intimacy of the womb into the home; she watches over and enlivens the dwelling where the past is kept, where the future is presaged; she engenders the future generation, and she nourishes the children already born; thanks to her, the existence that man expends throughout the world by his work and his activity is re centered by delving into her immanence: when he comes home at night, he is anchored to the earth; the wife assures the days' continuity; whatever risks he faces in the outside world, she guarantees the stability of his meals and sleep; she repairs whatever has been damaged or worn out by activity: she prepares the tired worker's food, she cares for him if he is ill, she mends and washes."
"From that the symmetry of the two gametes' nuclei was established; their fusion was analyzed in detail for the first time in by a Belgian zoologist."
"So the relation between the two sexes is a relation of struggle."
"In Islamic texts, woman is called 'field grapevine.'"
"The Velleian Senate decree is modified: from that time on she can intercede for the benefit of a third party; but she cannot contract for her husband; her dowry becomes inalienable; it is her children's patrimony, and she is forbidden to dispose of it."
"I was as if hypnotized."
"A small number experience sensual pleasure in it."
"One would call it my little spigot, another my ninepin, another my coral branch, another my stopper, my cork, my gimlet, my ramrod, my awl, my pendant.'."
"The pain was so severe that it made me utter several moans."
"The fancy has hovered round a form of beauty dimly seen but"
"On the other hand, there is little distress more pathetic than that of an isolated and penniless girl who sees herself ensnared in a 'crime' to erase a 'fault' that people around her consider unpardonable: in France this is the case of approximately women employees, secretaries, students, workers, and peasants; illegitimate motherhood is still so terrible a stain that many prefer suicide or infanticide to being an unmarried mother: proof that no punishment will ever stop them from 'getting rid of the infant.'"
"Uncle Tom's Cabin is pervaded with assumptions of both Black and female inferiority."
"It is noteworthy that English law punishes homosexuality in men while not considering it a crime for women."
"It is insufficient to say that women have fewer needs than men: that is only a subsequent justification."
"The very little girl thus sees in dressing a disguise that changes her into a fairy, a queen, a flower; she thinks she is beautiful as soon as she is laden with garlands and ribbons because she identifies with these flashy clothes;"
"Both Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan."
"Whose condition we examined, ibid."
"However, one would like to know whether for her as well, love is the key to the world, the revelation of beauty; will she find this beauty in her lover?"
"In marriage they seek an expansion, a confirmation of their existence but not the very right to exist; it is a charge they assume freely."
"The old charges are no longer valid."
"She makes the acquaintance of a very rich young man that she would like to marry."
"That is, President Woodrow Wilson."
"Nature is counteracted, or she was born only to procreate and rot."
"But the woman is still inclined to be defeatist vis vis the world because she has never frankly assumed it."
"She lives to see the virtues which she endeavoured to plant on principles, fixed into habits, to see her children attain a strength of character sufficient to enable them to endure adversity without forgetting their mother's example."
"From the respect paid to property flow, as from a poisoned fountain, most of the evils and vices which render this world such a dreary scene to the contemplative mind."
"Marco Polo asserted that for the Tibetans, 'none of them wanted to take a virgin girl as wife.'"
"For the girl, on the contrary, there is a divorce between her properly human condition and her feminine vocation."
"Not being a philosopher, Freud refused to justify his system philosophically; his disciples maintain that he thus eludes any attacks of a metaphysical sort."
"Meretricious airs, and the whole science of wantonness, has then a more powerful stimulus than either appetite or vanity; and this remark gives force to the prevailing opinion, that with chastity all is lost that is respectable in woman."
"At twenty the beauty of both sexes is equal; but the libertinism of man leads him to make the distinction, and superannuated coquettes are commonly of the same opinion; for when they can no longer inspire love, they pay for the vigour and vivacity of youth."
"He walked off with everything."
"The other women were Marian Bachrach, Betty Gannet and Claudia Jones, a Black woman from Trinidad who had immigrated to the United States as a young girl."
"Still today, every Good Friday, Therese Neumann turns a face dripping with Christ's blood toward her visitors."
"S. society linked them far more intimately to their working class sisters than did the experience of sexism for white women of the middle classes."
"Nature, in these respects, may safely be left to herself; let women only acquire knowledge and humanity, and love will teach them modesty."
"But I no longer need anything, no longer have those foolish aspirations,"
"In this case, the defloration was a kind of rape."
"When told: 'You have to live with a man for that to happen,' she replied: 'Well, I am living with two men my father and your husband.'"
"Transposing Freud's theory of the Oedipus Complex into racial terms, Firestone implies that Black men harbor an uncontrollable desire for sexual relations with white women."
"Whenever Black women have challenged rape, they usually and simultaneously expose the use of the frame up rape charge as a deadly racist weapon against their men."
"When she has given up the fight against the inevitability of time, another combat opens: she has to keep a place on earth."
"By not conforming, a woman devalues herself sexually and consequently socially because society has incorporated sexual values."
"She admits to Stekel that she gave herself to him."
"The apologists of the new monopoly capitalist class were, however, determined to provoke these racist divisions."
"But women suffered in different ways as well, for they were victims of sexual abuse and other barbarous mistreatment that could only be inflicted on women."
"Abraham speaks of 'the great pleasure women experience watering the garden with a hose'"
"George Eliot had Maggie Tulliver and Margaret Kennedy"
"Their vain arrogance, their radical incapability, their stubborn ignorance, turn them into the most useless beings, the most idiotic that the human species has ever produced."
"I could proceed still further, till I animadverted on some still more indelicate customs, which men never fall into."
"According to a National Fertility Study conducted in by Princeton University's Office of Population Control, percent of all married Black women have been permanently sterilized."
"They are timid and want to be defended."
"On the one hand, it brings social activities to a halt, destroys the vital force, withers flowers, causes fruit to fall; but it also has beneficial effects:"
"In fact, it is better to be the slave of an educated white man, than of a degraded, ignorant black one"
"It is respect for the understanding that keeps alive tenderness for the person."
"However, she is afraid of her new responsibilities."
"Prudence Crandall's unswerving defense of Black people's right to learn was a dramatic example a more powerful example than ever could have been imagined for white women who were suffering the birth pangs of political consciousness."
"She is not directly deprived of her paternal inheritance but, through circuitous means, is kept from using it: she is put under the authority of a guardian. '"
"It is all well and good not to be duped: but this is where it all begins; the woman exhausts her courage in dissipating mirages, and she stops in fear at the threshold of reality."
"In more recent years the following are a few of the objects found in the vagina or bladder whence"
"We have seen that most of the time the young girl accepts in her imagination thedomination of a demigod, a hero, a male, but it is still only a narcissistic game."
"The doctrine is unimportant, he says: psychoanalysis is a method; but the success of the method strengthens the doctrinaire in his faith."
"Adler maintains that woman's infidelity always stems from revenge; this is going too far; but the fact is that she often yields less to a lover's seduction than to a desire to defy her husband: 'He is not the only man in the world I can attract others I am not his slave, he thinks he is clever"
"but he can be duped.'"
"she felt toward her mother; she falls under her influence while at the same time wishing to extricate herself from it; if the other persists in holding her back, she will remain her 'prisoner' for a time; but either in violent scenes or amicably, she will manage to escape; having succeeded in expunging her adolescence, she feels ready to face a normal woman's life."
"Why, for loving him so much.'"
"And why is all this preparation necessary only, according to Rousseau's own account, to make her the mistress of her husband, a very short time?"
"First of all, it involves going to the market, which is for many housewives the best time of the day."
"Moreover, even if the value of intercellular exchange could be demonstrated, it would be a purely ungrounded fact."
"Oh, I'm so fond of liberty, I will not be a slave."
"The poor boy explained that in the past he had been potent, but since his wedding a feeling of awkwardness and shame had made everything impossible."
"In Saint Thomas's time it was an essence defined with as much certainty as the sedative quality of a poppy."
"So if that is the way you feel about it, you needn't stay any longer.'"
"According to Isadora Duncan."
"It did nothing of the kind."
"Women who have accomplished works comparable to men's are those whom the force of social institutions had exalted beyond any sexual differentiation."
"The lawn rose to welcome me like one of those little hares that poachers sometimes brought, freshly killed, into the kitchen."
"Women should be given exactly as much education as boys."
"She was also an active organizer, initiating and serving as president of the first Black women's club in Chicago."
"They did not, in any event, represent the accumulated experiences of all those women who toiled under the lash for their masters, worked for and protected their families, fought against slavery, and who were beaten and raped, but never subdued."
"An eloquent writer, a powerful orator and a master at the art of debate, Terrell waged persistent and principled defenses of Black equality and woman suffrage, as well as the rights of working people."
"In other words, '… the Republicans wanted nothing to interfere with winning two million black votes for their party.'"
", Roll: The World the Slaves Made."
"The same idea is expressed by Nietzsche in The Gay Science."
"I was never very deeply hurt by their departure, because they were barely more than a pretext for my amorous musings"
"Above all, he is a mistreated and bloody body: it is in the contemplation of the Crucified that she drowns herself the most fervently; she identifies with the Virgin Mary holding the corpse of her Son in her arms, or with Magdalene standing at the foot of the cross and being sprinkled with the Beloved's blood."
"I go to the Laferri res', and in just three hours Caroline makes me a dress in which I look as if I'm enveloped in a cloud."
"Emilie Du Ch telet and Voltaire lived and worked in the Ch teau de Cirey from to giving rise to some speculation about the possibility of a misspelling or an erroneous transcription from the original manuscript of the name Ciray."
"Is it true that iris is a scent that's gone out of fashion?"
"For Breton it seems that man is only true through the mystery that inhabits him; it pleases him that Nadja sees that star he is going toward and that is like 'a heartless flower'; his dreams, intuitions, and the spontaneous unfolding of his inner language: it is in these activities that are out of the control of will and reason that he recognizes himself: woman is the tangible figure of this veiled presence infinitely more essential than her conscious personality."
"She was prevented from seeing Arthur, whom she preferred, and she suffered a good deal from it; her work went badly, her writing was deformed, and she became cross eyed."
"The exclusionary policies of the did not entirely deter Black women from raising the demand for the vote."
"She systematically detests the girlfriends in whom her daughter seeks succor against family oppression, friends who 'spur her on'; she criticizes them, prevents her daughter from seeing them too often, or even uses the pretext of their 'bad influence' to radically forbid her to be with them."
"In particular, the confessor occupies an ambiguous place between heaven and earth."
"Woman cannot be emancipated unless she takes part in production on a large social scale and is only incidentally bound todomestic work."
"It is plain from the history of all nations, that women cannot be confined to merelydomestic pursuits, for they will not fulfil family duties, unless their minds take a wider range, and whilst they are kept in ignorance, they become in the same proportion, the slaves of pleasure as they are the slaves of man."
"Even the outstanding writer Gertrude Stein described one of her Black women characters as possessing '… the simple, promiscuous unmorality of the black people.'"
"Anthony frequently delivered as she sought to recruit more working women into the fight for suffrage."
"The husband is, so to speak, never more than a substitute for the loved man, and not that man himself,' said Freud."
"It is clear that in her struggle against her husband, she never intends to leave him."
", deflowered at seventeen and a half by a young man she had never seen whom she had met by chance at the doctor's, where she had gone to get the doctor for her sick sister; he brought her back by car so that she could get home more quickly, but in fact he left her in the middle of the street after getting what he wanted from her."
"Woman frees herself from her chains in her autumn and winter years; she uses the pretext of her age to escape burdensome chores; she knows her husband too well to let herself still be intimidated by him, she avoids his embraces, she carves out in friendship, indifference, or hostility a real life of her own alongside him; if he declines more quickly than she, she takes the lead in the couple."
"She was given hard work, and in particular it was she who carried heavy loads; yet this latter fact is ambiguous:"
"Dr. Arthus cites the following example, which I have summarized: Mme."
"Oh flee not from me!'"
"and I did not know when she would."
"In modern civilization, where freedom plays an important role even for the woman religion becomes less of an instrument of constraint than of mystification."
"Inversely, if she does not want to look eccentric, she follows the rules."
"Yet we must either allow these impious conclusions, or treat with contempt every promise to restore health to a diseased body by supernatural means, or to foretell,"
"The business of education in this case, is only to conduct the shooting tendrils to a proper pole; yet after laying precept upon precept, without allowing a child to acquire judgment itself, parents expect them to act in the same manner by this borrowed fallacious light, as if they had illuminated it themselves; and be, when they enter life, what their parents are at the close."
"To reject the notions of the eternal feminine, the black soul, or the Jewish character is not to deny that there are today Jews, blacks, or women: this denial is not a liberation for those concerned but an inauthentic flight."
"For the woman to be aroused, positive phenomena must be produced in her organism: stimulation in erogenous zones, swelling of certain erectile tissue, secretions, temperature rise, pulse, and breathing acceleration."
"And how will the baby get out?"
"To argue from analogy, every thing around us is in a progressive state; and when an unwelcome knowledge of life produces almost a satiety of life, and we discover by the natural course of things that all that is done under the sun is vanity, we are drawing near the awful close of the drama."
"He does not, of course, demand sexual equality, but wants woman to be treated with respect."
"A man of sense may only have a cast of countenance that wears off as you trace his individuality, whilst the weak, common man, has scarcely ever any character, but what belongs to the body; at least, all his opinions have been so steeped in the vat consecrated by authority, that the faint spirit which the grape of his own vine yields cannot be distinguished."
"These are the moments of luminous happiness that Virginia Woolf in Mrs. Dalloway, in To the Lighthouse that Katherine Mansfield, all through her work, grant to their heroines as a supreme recompense."
"(P)ublic opinion has accepted too easily the claim of lynchers and mobsters that they were acting solely in defense of womanhood."
"According to Gutman, although institutionalized slave norms accorded women a great degree of premarital sexual freedom, they eventually settled into permanent marriages and built families based as much on their husband's input as on their own."
"I have said that neither her family nor customs assist her attempts."
"Will men never be wise?"
"On those plantations and farms where pregnant women were dealt with more leniently, it was seldom on humanitarian grounds."
"She is left a widow, perhaps, without a sufficient provision: but she is not desolate!"
": We discover that we are the victims of poisoning, but that we have grown used to it."
"The serpent's tooth enters into her very soul, and the vices of licentious youth bring her with sorrow, if not with poverty also, to the grave."
"Her feeling takes on a mystical dimension; she no longer asks God to admire her or approve her; she wants to melt into him, forget herself in his arms. '"
"A multitude of behaviors and feelings thereby solicit man and enrich him."
"but I only stayed in the house for four weeks"
"Legend accords her an eminent role in history:"
"In every civilization founded on landed property, an abundant literature sings of the poetry and virtues of the home; in Henry Bordeaux's novel precisely titled La maison (The Home), the home encapsulates all the bourgeois values: faithfulness to the past, patience, economy, caution, love of family, of native soil, and so forth; the home's champions are often women, since it is their task to ensure the happiness of the familial group; as in the days when thedomina sat in the atrium, their role is to be 'mistress of the house.'"
", I was so hungry: I swallowed my saliva, gnawed on my handkerchief, and rolled on the floor from wanting to eat.'"
"Men have various employments and pursuits which engage their attention, and give a character to the opening mind; but women, confined to one, and having their thoughts constantly directed to the most insignificant part of themselves, seldom extend their views beyond the triumph of the hour."
"The relationships of mother and wife, however, are those of particular individuals, partly in the form of something natural pertaining to desire, partly in the form of something negative which sees in those relationships only something evanescent and also, again, the particular individual is for that very reason a contingent element which can be replaced by another individual."
"Surely, in a way, woman is mysterious, 'mysterious like everyone,' according to Maeterlinck."
"Humanity to animals should be particularly inculcated as a part of national education, for it is not at present one of our national virtues."
"he 'lets himself go' with his wife, becoming illogical, a liar, capricious; likewise, she 'lets herself go' with her child."
"If the original relation between man and his peers had been exclusively one of friendship, one could not account for any kind of enslavement: this phenomenon is a consequence of the imperialism of human consciousness, which seeks to match its sovereignty objectively."
"Their main priority had been to expose the inhuman and immoral essence of the slave system and the special responsibility women bore for its perpetuation."
"The source of the bourgeois notion of woman as man's eternal servant is itself a revealing story."
"But even in times when they had a privileged status, unique in the ancient world, they were not socially equal to men; taking part in religion and government, they could have the role of regent, but the pharaoh was male; priests and warriors were males; woman's role in public life was a secondary one; and in private life, fidelity was required of her without reciprocity."
"Thus Imperia became famous among Italian courtesans."
", you don't have your heart in it, you let yourself go,' some say."
"Whilst other indolent women, neglecting every personal duty, have thought that they deserved their husband's affection, because they acted in this respect with propriety."
"I have before observed"
"I met a very generous lady, and so forth."
"She appears as the one who waits, endures, complains, cries, and makes scenes: and in daily reality this thankless role does not lead to any apotheosis; victim, she is scorned; shrew, she is detested; her destiny appears to be the prototype of bland repetition: with her, life only repeats itself stupidly without going anywhere; blocked in her housewifely role, she stops the expansion of her existence, she is obstacle and negation."
"The querelle is a secondary phenomenon in which society's attitude is reflected but which does not modify it."
"The girl, docile and dispirited, gave in, but her heart was heavy and fear and shame wrung her breast."
"from her youth she was wholly mind and freedom."
"Do I mutilate her flesh so as to reach her bones?"
"Their father is a very chic man. '"
"It is hard to know any longer if women still exist, if they will always exist, if there should be women at all, what place they hold in this world, what place they should hold. '"
"It was the unwritten policy of the."
"People also readily think that sexual intercourse makes man lose his muscular strength and mental lucidity, consumes his phosphorus, and coarsens his sensitivity."
"It is because they are nothing that many women fiercely limit their interests to their self alone, that their self becomes hypertrophied so as to be confounded with All. '"
"Men might be passionate lovers at certain moments of their existence, but there is not one who could be defined as 'a man in love'; in their most violent passions, they never abandon themselves completely; even if they fall on their knees before their mistresses, they still wish to possess them, annex them; at the heart of their lives, they remain sovereign subjects; the woman they love is merely one value among others; they want to integrate her into their existence, not submerge their entire existence in her."
"The confidante is invited to see through the eyes of the woman in love, to feel with her heart, with her flesh: she is attracted by the lover, fascinated by the man who seduces her friend; she feels protected enough by her loyalty to let her feelings go; she does not like playing an inessential role: soon she is ready to surrender, to offer herself."
"From time to time, she requested a treatment and those were the happiest times."
"The emperors are more or less under the influence of the Church Fathers;"
"She loses none of her primitive attributes; but their meanings change; from calamitous they become auspicious; black magic turns to white magic."
"Since dinner from nine o'clock onwards, she has been doing the washing."
"Thus, as wars, agriculture, commerce, and literature, expands the mind, despots are compelled, to make covert corruption hold fast the power which was formerly snatched by open force."
"Often when our landlord was alone, he came to get me, took me in his arms, and kissed me for a long time all the while wiggling back and forth."
"When the fight has only been as happens most often a symbolic revolt, defeat is certain."
"While cases of the 'white slave trade,' where she is dragged into the spiral by violence, false promises, mystifications, and so on, are relatively rare, what happens more often is that she is kept in this career against her will."
"Threatened with lynching herself, she decided to remain in the East and to '… tell the world for the first time the true story of Negro lynchings, which were becoming more numerous and horrible.'"
"But, as all readers are not sagacious, I must be allowed to add some explanatory remarks to bring the subject home to reason to that sluggish reason, which supinely takes opinions on trust, and obstinately supports them to spare itself the labour of thinking."
"I've left it too late now to …' '"
"these are inessential intermediaries between animal life and free existence; the only value that is attached to inessential means is usefulness; the housewife lives at the level of utility, and she takes credit for herself only when she is useful to her family."
"They give the lie to the complacent 'fairyland' the conceited creates around himself."
"The decreed price is four pennies of their money, which is the equivalent of our gros"
"Have we any true sense of justice, are we not dead to the sentiment of humanity if we shall wish to postpone his security against present woes and future enslavement till woman shall obtain political rights?"
"In the pages of the 's journal, articles by Guy Irving Birch, director of the American Eugenics Society, began to appear."
"these inferior far beneath me set?"
"In the more widespread transitional regimes, there are two kinds of rights, one based on religion and the other on the occupation and labor on the land, and they overlap."
"She left her family in the end and hid in a small apartment, seeing only a guardian and the doctor; she never went out; she accepted her father's visit, but only with difficulty; he brought about a serious relapse by telling her that she looked well; she dreaded having a fat face, healthy complexion, big muscles."
"If she feels hostility toward the husband, the situation is quite different: she can fiercely devote herself to the child, denying the father possession, or, on the other hand, hate the offspring of the detested man."
"A Parisian passerby walking around the Versailles gardens once concluded that from everything he saw, the trees are born pruned.'"
"Dr. Liepmann, Youth and Sexuality."
"In the choice of a husband they should not be led astray by the qualities of a lover for a lover the husband, even supposing him to be wise and virtuous, cannot long remain."
"Given the enormous difficulties of organizingdomestics, however, this was hardly a small accomplishment."
"At Coppet, one of her favorite pastimes was to declaim tragic roles; playing Phaedra, she would readily make ardent declarations to young lovers whom she dressed up as Hippolytus."
"It is thought that the catabolic glands, thyroid and pituitary, attempt to compensate for the ovaries' deficiencies; thus alongside the change of life depression there are phenomena of surges: hot flashes, high blood pressure, nervousness; there is sometimes an increase in the sex drive."
"But the belly ceaselessly drew him, a tender and elastic ocean, whence all life is born, and whither it returns, asylum of asylums, with its tides, horizons, illimitable surfaces."
"Her passions often unfold in secret, or at least on a purely platonic level; but the passage to a concrete eroticism is much easier here than if the loved object is masculine"
"Unmarried or widowed, she has all the rights of man"
"She also is of a rather virile type."
"Her worth does not derive from her own effort but from a fickle approbation."
"More than half the women of Saint Lazare had at least one child; many raised from three to six children; Dr. Bizard points out one who brought fourteen into the world, of whom eight were still living when he knew her."
"But other goddesses Ishtar and Artemis are cruel."
"How lovely you are, Violaine, and"
"Every curving flower seemed full of echoes too majestic for its fragility A breath of scented air came from the hilltops and stole among the branches."
"The tougher his pride, the more he relishes dangerous adventure; it is far better to tame Penthesilea than to marry a consenting Cinderella."
"She abstains, it is true, without any great struggle, from committing gross crimes; but how does she fulfil her duties?"
"One must be careful to note that if for some reason the lover's prestige is ruined, his blows and demands become odious to her: they are only worth something if they manifest the beloved's divinity."
"They only aimed at making them prudent; and prudence, early in life, is but the cautious craft of ignorant self love."
"Nevertheless, the history of Roman law shows a tendency that contradicts the one just described:"
"In India of yore, naked women pushed the plow through the field at night."
"It was the Golden Dawn, after chains of a thousand years."
"But more often the 'physical thing' seems to be linked to the urinary and excremental systems; in particular, children think that the man urinates into the woman."
"Reading, writing, arithmetic, natural history, and some simple experiments in natural philosophy, might fill up the day; but these pursuits should never encroach on gymnastic plays in the open air."
"Is it because we are expecting company?'"
"She had this story published in secret under the pseudonym Marie Th se; I will refer to her by this name."
"In truth, homosexuality is no more a deliberate perversion than a fatal curse."
"A discovery made in Susa shows the oldest representation of the Great Goddess, the Great Mother in a long robe and high coiffure, which other statues show crowned with towers; excavations in Crete have yielded several effigies of her."
"To do great things, today's woman needs above all forgetfulness of self: but to forget oneself one must first be solidly sure that one has already found oneself."
"In fact, what decides woman's fecundity is in part a considered desire and in part chance."
"They have also understood that they could not adequately resist the sexual abuses they suffered without simultaneously attacking the fraudulent rape charge as a pretext for lynching."
"I have only one concern, which is to love, to forget myself, and to annihilate myself,' writes Marie Alacoque."
"Perceiving the rape charge as an attack against the entire Black community, Black women were quick to assume the leadership of the anti lynching movement."
"Soon, in addition to slaves, poor Greek women were taken in as residents."
"Such is Val ry's way of hailing her."
"A lover who has confidence in his mistress shows no displeasure at her absences or if she is occupied when away from him:"
"All sincere women writers have noted this melancholy that inhabits the heart of 'thirty year old women'; this is a characteristic common to the heroines of Katherine Mansfield, Dorothy Parker, and Virginia Woolf."
"Two women led it: Doris Stevens and a young Quaker, Alice Paul."
"By giving up its transcendence and mobility, the sperm penetrates the female element: it is grabbed and castrated by the inert mass that absorbs it after cutting off its tail; like all passive actions, this one is magical and disturbing; the male gamete activity is rational, a measurable movement in terms of time and space."
"The same forces that sought to subjugate the peoples of these countries were responsible for the worsening plight of Black people and the entire."
"Nor does he ever evoke the image of the bad woman."
"Her mother sends her right out to do an errand."
"and I want it: we have each other."
"Macbeth's heart smote him more for one murder, the first, than for a hundred subsequent ones, which were necessary to back it."
"This respectable concourse, I contend, men and women, should not have their sensations heightened in the hot bed of luxurious indolence, at the expence of their understanding; for, unless there be a ballast of understanding, they will never become either virtuous or free:"
"but they were aimed more often at white abolitionists, who had no cash value on the market."
"The snake is an epiphany of the moon; it molts and regenerates, it is immortal, it is a power that distributes fertility and science; it watches over holy sources, the Tree of Life, the Fountain of Youth, and so on, but it is also the snake that takes immortality away from man."
"Friedrich Engels, The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State."
"I had never seen such eyes.'"
"These purely physiological processes have already been described in Volume I, Chapter."
"January I have been feeling out of sorts and angry that he should love everything and everyone, when I want him to love only me"
"Among other things, she lovingly depicts the metamorphoses that take place in the secret of hot ashes: Wood ash does a flavorsome job of cooking whatever it is given to cook."
"It is rather rare, as legend has it, for the employer himself to play this initiating role: but often it is his son or nephew or one of his friends."
"The restrictions that education and custom impose on woman limit her grasp of the universe; when the struggle to claim a place in this world gets too rough, there can be no question of tearing oneself away from it; one must first emerge within it in sovereign solitude if one wants to try to grasp it anew"
"Anthony should not, of course, be held personally responsible for the suffrage movement's racist errors."
"A normal man considers objects around him as instruments; he arranges them according to the purpose for which they are intended; his 'order' where woman will often only see disorder is to have his cigarettes, his papers, and his tools within reach."
"When the police arrived, Mother Bloor was arrested, together with a Black woman and her husband."
"But it is false to claim that therein lies a biological given; in fact, it is a destiny imposed on her by her teachers and by society."
"Oh no, I've got the same old things to do today, till I go to bed tonight.'"
"That would be far too simplistic an explanation."
"Her most ordinary destiny can be summarized in Julie de Lespinasse's famous words: 'At every instant of my life, my friend, I love you, I suffer, and I await you.'"
"Afterwards, I don't have anything to worry about."
"If most abolitionists viewed slavery as a nasty blemish which needed to be eliminated, most women's righters viewed male supremacy in a similar manner as an immoral flaw in their otherwise acceptable society."
"And above all it keeps the husband and wife from genuinely knowing each other."
"This refusal to apply a human measure to the lover explains many feminine paradoxes."
"Taking objects without having the right is affirming one's autonomy arrogantly, it is putting oneself forward as subject facing the things stolen and the society that condemns stealing, and it is rejecting the established order as well as defying its guardians; but this defiance also has a masochistic side; the thief is fascinated by the risk she runs, by the abyss she will be thrown into if she is caught; it is the danger of being caught that gives such a voluptuous attraction to the act of taking; thus looked at with blame, or with a hand placed on her shoulder in shame, she can realize herself as object totally and without recourse."
"Was her life a false calculation?"
"But caring for this renown, her surest asset, subjects her to the hardest of tyrannies:"
"To tear her husband from a worrying rival, she will take him on a trip, she will try to distract him; if necessary following Mme de Pompadour's model she will seek out another, less dangerous rival; if nothing succeeds, she will resort to crying, nervous fits, suicide attempts, and such; but too many scenes and recriminations will chase her husband from the house; the wife will make herself unbearable just when she most needs to seduce; if she wants to win her hand, she will skillfully combine touching tears and heroic smiles, blackmail and coquetry."
"It is true, they could not then with equal propriety be termed the sweet flowers that smile in the walk of man; but they would be more respectable members of society, and discharge the important duties of life by the light of their own reason."
"Sexual relations with him disgusted her; she reproached him for his past, found him old and boring, had nothing but hostility for his ideas; and it seems that greedy and brutal in bed, he neglected her and treated her harshly."
"In spite of these compensations, she does not accept her assigned destiny without regret; growing up, she envies boys their virility."
"There have been many women in the world who, instead of being supported by the reason and virtue of their fathers and brothers, have strengthened their own minds by struggling with their vices and follies; yet have never met with a hero, in the shape of a husband; who, paying the debt that mankind owed them, might chance to bring back their reason to its natural dependent state, and restore the usurped prerogative, of rising above opinion, to man."
"And it is also possible that in a gradual and gentle way, the erotic phase dissolves calmly."
"We might as well never have been born, unless it were necessary that we should be created to enable man to acquire the noble privilege of reason, the power of discerning good from evil, whilst we lie down in the dust from whence"
"Sophia Tolstoy copied her husband's manuscripts and put them in order: he later gave the job to one of his daughters; she understood that even her zeal had not made her indispensable."
"Black people wanted to be educated."
", you belong to me so little that all these littles make a whole of sadness that fills my heart and mind.'"
"My head is a sun in the middle of my tresses set like golden rays."
"The whole account pivots around the transition from a communitarian regime to one of private property: there is absolutely no indication of how it was able to occur; Engels even admits that 'for now we know nothing about it'; not only is he unaware of its historical details, but he offers no interpretation of it."
"It was not until and that the married woman's status was modified: the duty of obedience was then abrogated, although the father remains the family head; he determines the place of residence, but the wife can oppose his choice if she advances valid arguments; her powers are increasing; but the formula is still confused: 'The married woman has full legal powers."
"She could only wait for him to release her breast like a big bee."
"We must see how this ideal is expressed in reality."
"He then chases her out and repudiates her."
"She ends up trying to kill him."
"Catherine Emmerich put on a red shirt so as to resemble Jesus when he was like 'a cloth soaked in blood'; she saw all things 'through Jesus's blood.'"
"Le ma tre de Santiago (The Master of Santiago)."
"I am the Great Isis!"
"Richard Wright, Native Son."
"It is wholly a gift of the mother.'"
"I translate your smile and the shadow on your face."
"This weakness, for a weakness it is, though the epithet may be tacked to it, a reasonable man must steel himself against; for the absurd duty, too often inculcated, of obeying a parent only on account of his being a parent, shackles the mind, and prepares it for a slavish submission to any power but reason."
"In any case, she feels passive: she is caressed, penetrated; she undergoes intercourse, whereas the man spends himself actively."
"Each evening the sick girl stayed naked in the middle of her room while her unfortunate mother was forced to go through a difficult examination of the bedclothes She had always affirmed her love for her fianc."
"And, dear sisters, in a country where women are degraded and brutalized, and where their exposed persons bleed under the lash where they are sold in the shambles of 'negro brokers' robbed of their heard earnings torn from their husbands, and forcibly plundered of their virtue and their offspring; surely in such a country, it is very natural that women should wish to know 'the reason why' especially when these outrages of blood and nameless horror are practiced in violation of the principles of our Constitution."
"Thus I pacified Psyche and kissed her"
"When Zeus reigns in heaven, Gaea, Rhea, and Cybele have to abdicate: all that is left to Demeter is a still imposing but secondary divinity."
"Law and custom did not always coincide: and a balance was set up between them so that woman was never concretely free."
"Rakes know how to work on their sensibility, whilst the modest merit of reasonable men has, of course, less effect on their feelings, and they cannot reach the heart by the way of the understanding, because they have few sentiments in common."
"… I lived in the days of cavemen"
"Their exploitation was even more intense than the exploitation suffered by their male counterparts."
"The wife would not have had that sensibility, of which self is the centre, and reason might have taught her not to expect, and not even to be flattered by the affection of her husband, if it led him to violate prior duties."
"My idea is that all of us, men as well as women, whoever we are, should be considered as human beings.'"
"In truth, as Saint Teresa herself understood, the value of a mystical experience is measured not by how it has been subjectively experienced but by its objective scope."
"Leviticus compares it to gonorrhea; the bleeding feminine sex is not only a wound but a suspicious sore."
"Did you have a nice day?' '"
"Frances Wright began to lecture on equal education for women."
"There is moreover a 'culture,' a tradition, of these cravings as there once was a culture of hysteria; woman expects to have these cravings, she waits for them, she invents them for herself."
"Water colors, music, or reading have the very same role; the unoccupied woman does not try to extend her grasp on the world in giving herself over to such activities, but only to relieve boredom; an activity that does not open up the future slides into the vanity of immanence; the idle woman begins a book, then puts it down, opens the piano, closes it, returns to her embroidery, yawns, and ends up on the telephone."
"Adults always seem mean and cautious to the girl who stops at nothing because she has nothing to lose; imagining herself taking the boldest risks, she dares them to match her in reality."
"She may feel alone within the world: she never stands up in front of it, unique and sovereign."
"Because she is faux Infinite, Ideal without truth, she is revealed as finitude and mediocrity and thus as falsehood."
"for what vexes her the most is that she does not have any real superiority to set against a girl of eleven or twelve; the latter can already perform household tasks perfectly well, she is 'a little woman'; she even has a liveliness, curiosity, and lucidity that, in many regards, make her superior to adult women."
"When I went upstairs to my room, I waited for her to come in; when she did not do so, I concluded she didn't find it convenient, and went on writing my letters in longhand."
"what can make her amends for this privation, or where is she to seek for a fresh employment?"
"of polite indifference to the most brilliant one among them, knowing that her intelligence, in a more or less dazzling way, reflects ideas that come from us.'"
"In the cotton, tobacco, corn and sugar cane fields, women worked alongside their men."
"It is their bounden duty to store their daughters' minds with useful learning."
"This Black labor organization, created because of the exclusionary policies of white labor groups, proved by its practice to be more seriously committed to working women's rights than its white counterpart and predecessor."
"We are going to be good boys"
"In her private life, though, the ham will exaggerate all her narcissistic defects: she will appear vain, touchy, and a phony; she will treat the whole world as a stage."
"And man is polarised upwards, towards the sun and the day's activity.'"
"She pretends to deplore the obstacles that separate her from him; but in reality she has chosen him precisely because no real rapport between them is possible."
"But above all, through nervous fits in her body she attempts to express the refusals she cannot carry out concretely."
"There is sometimes a real collaboration between a man and a woman, in which the two are equally autonomous: in the Joliot Curie couple, for example."
"All the rest of my existence would no longer be anything but an 'after.'"
"Freud does not go that far; he accepts that woman's sexuality is as developed as man's; but he barely studies it in itself."
"Of course, one can only dream about the positive reality of the Mystery in the twilight of bad faith; like certain marginal hallucinations, it dissolves once one tries to pin it down."
"Stendhal admires Mme de nal and Mme de Chasteller in spite of their detestable prejudices; the man does not hold a woman responsible for not being very intelligent, clear sighted, or courageous: she is a victim, he thinks often rightly of her situation; he dreams of what she could have been, of what she will perhaps be: she can be given credit, one can grant her a great deal because she is nothing definite in particular; this lack is what will cause the lover to grow tired of her quickly: but it is the source of her mystery, the charm that seduces him and inclines him to feel superficial tenderness for her."
"is, in fact, not to understand that it is one."
"Yes, yes, it was true For all her love and respect and admiration"
"And to render this general knowledge of due importance, I have endeavoured to show that private duties are never properly fulfilled, unless the understanding enlarges the heart; and that public virtue is only an aggregate of private."
"Mrs. Stanton was anxious to have a workingwomen's suffrage association,' explained the first vice president of the Working Women's Association."
"I don't know,' she said, 'I'm only sixty five.'"
"The wife is not subordinated to the husband because she is judged basically incapable: when nothing else prevents it, woman's full capacities are recognized."
"Although the seclusion Hugo imposed on Juliette Drouet weighed on the young woman, one feels she is happy to obey him: staying seated close to the fire is doing something for the master's happiness."
"For many women in these times, life was an uninterrupted series of pregnancies; even women of easy virtue paid for their licentious love lives with frequent births."
"At sixteen, a woman has already gone through disturbing experiences: puberty, menstrual periods, awakening of sexuality, first arousals, first passions, fears, disgust, and ambiguous experiences: she has hidden all these things in her heart; she has learned to guard her secrets preciously."
"The hope of one day being free from looking after herself and the fear of having to give up this hope by coping with this anxiety come together to prevent her from devoting herself single mindedly to her studies and career."
"It was this that drew Amber with breathless curiosity into the secret haunts of nature."
"Gracious Creator of the whole human race!"
"He learns from Nietzsche that 'woman is the hero's amusement,' and he thinks that it is enough to get pleasure from women to be anointed hero."
"The male gamete seeks it out; the sperm is always a naked cell, while the ovum is, according to the species, protected or not by a membrane; but in any case, the sperm bumps into the ovum when it comes into contact with it, makes it waver, and infiltrates it; the male gamete loses its tail; its head swells, and, twisting, it reaches the nucleus."
"; of course he does not succeed in appropriating them: at least he holds them; the embrace and the kiss imply a partial failure: but this very failure is a stimulant and a joy."
"One needs only to see the importance that young men give to their muscles to understand that every subject grasps his body as his objective expression."
"This deflowering is not the harmonious outcome of a continuous development; it is an abrupt rupture with the past, the beginning of a new cycle."
"Then he nevertheless decided to caress her."
"There were thus percent who had been raped before puberty."
"After all, men, women and children alike were all 'providers' for the slaveholding class."
"In any case, this friendship is shrouded in mystery, and in general at this period the child loves to have secrets; she makes a secret of the most insignificant thing: thus does she react against the secrecies that thwart her curiosity; it is also a way of giving herself importance; she tries by all means to acquire it; she tries to be part of adults' lives, she makes up stories about them that she only half believes and in which she plays a major role."
"A woman's work began at sunup and continued by firelight as long as she could hold her eyes open."
"One often hears that women 'have bellyaches'; true indeed, a hostile element is locked inside them: the species is eating away at them."
"If she is intelligent enough to feel the need for moral justification, she will invoke a more or less well assimilated Nietzscheism; she will affirm the right of the elite being over the vulgar."
"The sight of the male organ can have a traumatic effect,' she says, 'but only if a chain of prior experiences that would create that effect had preceded it.'"
"how has thy clear stream been muddied by the dabblers, who have presumptuously endeavoured to confine in one narrow channel, the living waters that ever flow toward God the sublime ocean of existence!"
"Each one tries to accomplish itself by reducing the other to slavery."
"And even their success can be dangerous: because she is his the lover disdains his mistress, but he is attached to her because she is his"
"Psychoanalysis has taught us that psychogenic intensification of the oral pregnancy symptom of vomiting takes place only when the oral expulsion tendencies are accompanied by unconscious and sometimes even manifest emotions of hostility to pregnancy or to the fetus,' says Deutsch."
"Women, in particular, all want to be ladies."
"This warlike civilization has only scorn for women."
"; I would not trust him with my rights; degraded, oppressed, himself, he would be more despotic than ever our Saxon rulers are The principle of unity underlying the creation of the Equal Rights Association was undoubtedly beyond reproach."
"Nearer and nearer drew this day"
"Her comments assured the overwhelming defeat of the resolution: We women are a helpless disfranchised class."
"The destiny that society traditionally offers women is marriage."
"She does not experience those rich moments where study and amusement merge, where adventures of the mind acquire living warmth."
"They constantly look back to see how far they have come: this curbs their drive."
"What is important to see is that in this meeting neither gamete takes precedence over the other: they both sacrifice their individuality; the egg absorbs the totality of their substance."
"another word for convenience.)"
"But above all, making a purchase is a profound pleasure: it is a discovery, almost an invention."
"At the same time, however, this vision was rigidly bound to the lifestyle enjoyed by the middle classes and the bourgeoisie."
"In the limitless desert of love it holds a very small place, so flaming that at first one sees nothing else All about this flickering hearth there lies the unknown, there lies danger After we have risen from a short embrace, or even from a long night, we shall have to begin to live at close quarters to each other, and in dependence on each other."
"And inversely, the tyranny wielded by the woman only manifests her dependence: she knows the success of the couple, its future, its happiness, and its justification, resides in the hands of the other; if she bitterly seeks to subjugate him to her will, it is because she is alienated in him."
"Levinas in his essay Le temps et l'autre (Time and the Other)."
"However, public opinion is not the only concern that makes her devote so much time and care to her looks and home."
"In the evening after a difficult day dealing with his equals and obeying his superiors, he likes to feel absolutely superior and dispense incontestable truths."
", the relation is a struggle of consciousnesses, each of which wants to be essential, it is the recognition of freedoms that confirm each other, it is the undefined passage from enmity to complicity."
", she is obviously a secondary being, some say; on the contrary, say others, Adam was only a rough draft, and God perfected the human being when he created Eve; her brain is smaller, but relatively bigger; Christ was made man, but perhaps out of humility."
"I caressed it all of a sudden"
"But it is striking that he deliberately adopts a man's point of view, disregarding the reciprocity of the subject and the object."
"Ponge has evoked the struggle, in the heart of the laundry woman, between uncleanliness and purity: Whoever has not lived for at least one winter in the company of a wash boiler knows nothing of a certain order of highly touching qualities and emotions."
"In L' tre et le ant (Being and Nothingness), Sartre disputes Heidegger's affirmation that human reality is doomed to death because of its finitude; he establishes that a finite and temporally limitless existence could be conceivable; nevertheless, if human life were not inhabited by death, the relationship of human beings to the world and to themselves would be so deeply upset that the statement 'man is mortal' would be anything but an empirical truth: immortal, an existent would no longer be what we call a man."
"And not yet feeling secure in the male universe, she still needs a retreat, a symbol of that interior refuge she has been used to finding in herself."
"and she was no longer interested in the earthquake and asked to see photos of the eruption."
"It includes, for example, two hundred female and an equal number of male candidates."
"One little boy, upon opening an Easter egg full of little sugar eggs, exclaimed with delight: 'Oh!"
"Moreover, if she does reveal them to her parents, their reaction is often to reprimand her. '"
"The heroes in Peter Cheyney's books, for example, never cease to be amazed by women's unpredictable caprices; one can never guess how they will behave, they confound all calculations; in truth, as soon as the workings of their actions are exposed to the reader, they are seen as very simple mechanisms: this one is a spy or that one a thief; however clever the intrigue, there is always a key, and it could not be otherwise, even if the author had all the talent, all the imagination possible."
"So much so that, unable to accomplish himself in solitude, man is ceaselessly in jeopardy in his relations with his peers: his life is a difficult enterprise whose success is never assured."
"After eight days, without an argument, he threw me out."
"What no one seems to realize is that I cannot create happiness, either for him or for myself."
"I know, that as a proof of the inferiority of the sex, Rousseau has exultingly exclaimed, How can they leave the nursery for the camp!"
"But it is not nature"
"The transcendence of an artisan or a man of action is driven by a subjectivity, but for the future mother the opposition between subject and object disappears; she and this child who swells in her form an ambivalent couple that life submerges; snared by nature, she is plant and animal, a collection of colloids, an incubator, an egg; she frightens children who are concerned with their own bodies and provokes sniggers from young men because she is a human being, consciousness and freedom, who has become a passive instrument of life."
"Examples like this prove how impossible it is to consider the woman as a solely productive force: for man she is a sexual partner, a reproducer, an erotic object, an Other through whom he seeks himself."
"I had only one life to live; this was my lot, so here I am!'"
"Her head spinning, as if overcome by blows, Berthe could no longer think when she heard that erratic and strident voice, and Albert continued to envelop her in an imperious drone to confuse her, to injure her in the distress of her humiliated spirit she was defeated, disarmed before the asperities of an inconceivable argumentation, and to release herself from this unjust power"
"I begged her to let me wear my short pink dress for the last time"
"He was my origin: it was he by whom and for whom I came into the world.' '"
"As a result, only a fraction of the Black population could be reached through an industrial union unless the union strenuously fought for Black people's admission into industry."
"Nevertheless, a consciousness without a body or an immortal human being is rigorously inconceivable, whereas a society can be imagined that reproduces itself by parthenogenesis or is composed of hermaphrodites."
"She admitted to him that she had been seduced by a tenor, married him, and was cured."
"And the woman dreams of another man who will rescue her from this routine."
"Their candlemaking paraphernalia became museum pieces, like so many of the other tools which had previously assisted them to produce the articles required by their families for survival."
"Subtilty is a talent natural to the sex; and as I am persuaded, all our natural inclinations are right and good in themselves, I am of opinion this should be cultivated as well as the others"
"Some were closed up in public houses."
"Undoubtedly, there are many young men who tread with anguish in the secret darkness of woman; their childhood terrors resurface at the threshold of caves and graves, and so does their fright in front of jaws, scythes, and wolf traps"
"They specifically like Law and Order to be embodied in a chief."
"It is noteworthy that the number of single women who commit suicide, compared with married women, shows that the latter are solidly protected from revulsion against life between twenty and thirty years of age (especially between twenty five and thirty) but not in the following years. '"
"Another of her phobias in a train or in the middle of a crowd was that a man could introduce his member from behind, deflower her, and provoke a pregnancy During the last phase of the illness, she feared finding pins in her bed or on her shirt that could enter her vagina."
"I think I see her surrounded by her children, reaping the reward of her care."
"he poor white man, embittered by his poverty and humiliated by his inferiority, finds no place for himself and his children, then will come the grapple between the races."
"Discussing psychoanalysis as such is not an easy undertaking."
"I was a passionate dancer, and while dancing I always shut my eyes"
"The descriptive schema is proposed as a law; and assuredly, a mechanistic psychology could not accept the notion of moral invention; at best it can recognize less but never more; at best it acknowledges failures, but never creations."
"And for both of them there is consternation when, in spite of precautions, she finds herself 'caught.'"
"Giving herself to many men, she belongs to none definitively; the money she accumulates, the name she 'launches' as one launches a product, ensure her economic autonomy."
"… I am glad to say that I have never been ashamed to be thus designated.'"
"The whole thing was a reproduction of the wedding night in which the husband had not shown himself as virile."
"Here she is like the fresh honeybee unfolding its newborn wings, like a lanky doe, and like a flower that does not even know it is beautiful.' '"
"She is annoyed at being oppressed by rules of decency, bothered by her clothes, enslaved to cleaning tasks, held back in all her enthusiasms; on this point there have been many studies that have almost all given the same result: all the boys like Plato in the past say they would have hated to be girls; almost all the girls are sorry not to be boys."
"Likewise, she will go so far as to reproach him for all the initiatives she does not appreciate; she judges her judge, and in order for him to deserve to remain her master, she refuses him his freedom."
"It is for psychology specifically psychoanalysis to discover why an individual is drawn more particularly to one aspect or another of the multi faceted Myth and why he incarnates it in any one particular form."
"Psychoanalysts like to claim that the woman seeks her father's image in her lover; but it is because he is man, not father, that he dazzles the child, and every man shares this magic; the woman wishes not to reincarnate one individual in another but to bring back to life a situation:"
"Thus the husband governs, the wife administers, and the children obey."
"Such is this woman whose case Stekel reports. '"
"Every woman loved is a natural wonder for Breton: 'a tiny, unforgettable fern climbing the inside wall of an ancient well.' '"
"And this is why every society tends toward a patriarchal form as its development leads man to gain awareness of himself and to impose his will."
"it was early in he received me in his home, always alone; one day he even sent his son out One day he got up and came toward me, carrying on with his conversation."
"He seeks cerebral, not sensual, satisfactions in women."
"And elsewhere: 'The more women have been enslaved by laws, the more dangerous their empire has been It would lessen if women had less interest in keeping it, if it ceased being for them"
"More than in physiological facts, it is here that one must seek the reason for the nervousness and frailty often observed in her."
"It is almost as absurd to attempt to make a youth wise by the experience of another, as to expect the body to grow strong by the exercise which is only talked of, or seen."
"If the idea of artificial insemination interests women so much, it is not because they wish to avoid male lovemaking: it is because they hope that voluntary motherhood will finally be accepted by society."
"We have seen the primary reasons for this severity:"
"Lynchings did occur before the Civil War"
"And she was willing to risk the consequences of her anti racist stance."
"Lucy Parsons remains one of those few Black women whose name has occasionally appeared in the chronicles of the."
"But what diminishes the hysterical subject is not the fact that his body actively expresses his obsessions: it is that he is obsessed, that his freedom is subjugated and annulled; the mastery a fakir acquires over his body does not make him its slave; bodily gestures can be part of the expression of a freedom."
"Lawrence develops this doctrine extensively in A Propos of 'Lady Chatterley's Lover': '"
"The early thirties also brought 'turn outs' and strikes to the Northeastern textile factories, operated largely by young women and children."
"You shouldn't put blue baby ribbon in chemises, pink is much prettier in lingerie and up against the skin.'"
"This dress,' she said, enunciating with insulting distinctness, 'is brand new."
"Hegel rightly notes that the sexual relationship cannot be reduced to that of two gametes."
"When the Civil War broke out, women ardently participated; but in vain they demanded that the amendment giving blacks the right to vote be drafted as follows: 'The right to vote shall not be denied or abridged on account of race, color, sex.'"
"It is far less easy to show friendship for a man:"
"She has no choice but to build a stable life where the present, prolonging the past, escapes the threats of tomorrow, that is, precisely to create a happiness."
"He embodies all of nature."
"Creation has often been imagined as a marriage of fire and water; hot humidity gives birth to living beings; the Sun is the spouse of the Sea; Sun and Fire are male divinities; and the Sea is one of the most universally widespread maternal symbols."
"But if he 'respects' her, he fails to waken her sensuality."
"and how can they be expected to relish in a lover what they do not, or very imperfectly, possess themselves?"
"They constitute percent of the population of."
"As soon as customs make reciprocity possible, woman takes revenge through infidelity:"
"This gesture made daily by so many men in the darkness of cinemas is for Costals the 'primitive gesture of the Lord.'"
"What is certain is that today it is very difficult for women to assume both their status of autonomous individual and their feminine destiny; here is the source of the awkwardness and discomfort that sometimes leads them to be considered 'a lost sex.'"
"I was safe, all at once I was the focus of attention."
"thanks to this impoverishment"
"The hall was crowded The leading colored women of Boston and Philadelphia had been invited to join in this demonstration, and they came, a brilliant array."
"In their presence man forgets his pride; he understands the sweetness of yielding and becoming a child, because between him and her there is no struggle for prestige: he could not resent the inhuman virtues of nature; and in their devotion, the wise initiates who care for him recognize they are his servants; he submits to their benevolent powers because he knows that while submitting to them, he remains their master."
"It '… seems almost a miracle,' this white woman exclaimed, that '…"
"All women were confused into one giant land, folded upon him, suave as desire burning in summer"
"Here are some of the arguments apologists for the weaker sex drew on until the seventeenth century:"
"Her social duty, which is to 'represent,' will become part of the pleasure she has in showing herself to others."
"It seems, in fact, that men of the capitalist class and their middle class partners are immune to prosecution because they commit their sexual assaults with the same unchallenged authority that legitimizes their daily assaults on the labor and dignity of working people."
"However, it is striking that she 'detested men' and that she particularly cherished older women."
"Today, women already have less trouble asserting themselves; but they have not totally overcome the age old specification that confines them in their femininity."
"Yes, virtue as well as religion, has been subjected to the decisions of taste."
"I mean, therefore, to infer, that the society is not properly organized which does not compel men and women to discharge their respective duties, by making it the only way to acquire that countenance from their fellow creatures, which every human being wishes some way to attain."
"She is not satisfied with marveling from afar at this precious childhood: she tries to revive it in her."
"This attitude is affirmed more clearly in self mutilation, so frequent at this age."
"Choosing to recriminate is choosing not to get rid of one's misfortunes but to wallow in them; her supreme consolation is to set herself up as martyr."
"If some backward individual still takes herself for a woman, her friends advise her to undergo psychoanalysis to get rid of this obsession."
"Luxury has introduced a refinement in eating that destroys the constitution; and, a degree of gluttony which is so beastly, that a perception of seemliness of behaviour must be worn out before one being could eat immoderately in the presence of another, and afterwards complain of the oppression that his intemperance naturally produced."
"Just the idea that I was finally going to know the stranger I had so desired."
"To render also the social compact truly equitable, and in order to spread those enlightening principles, which alone can meliorate the fate of man, women must be allowed to found their virtue on knowledge, which is scarcely possible unless they be educated by the same pursuits as men."
"What we give one another is God in different guises.' '"
"In the government of the physical world, it is observable that the female, in general, is inferior to the male."
"In Man's Fate, Malraux shows us a couple where man and woman make a pact for reciprocal freedom: yet when May tells Kyo she has slept with a friend, he grieves over the fact that this man thinks he 'had' her; he chooses to respect her independence because he knows very well that one never has anyone; but the complaisant ideas held by another man hurt and humiliate him through"
"There were, it soon became clear,"
"A man of delicacy carries his notions of modesty still further, for neither weakness nor sensibility will gratify him he looks for affection."
"Seek not for happiness in singularity; and dread a refinement of wisdom as a deviation into folly."
"But what can a woman for whom the man is both the only means and the only reason for living do without masculine help?"
"I had intentionally reserved the farewells to my mother till the end"
"On average, she is smaller than man, lighter; her skeleton is thinner; the pelvis is wider, adapted to gestation and birth; her connective tissue retains fats, and her forms are rounder than man's; the overall look: morphology, skin, hair system, and so on is clearly different in the two sexes."
"Sygne, Violaine, Prouh ze."
"Despite all threats, Prudence Crandall opened the school The Negro students stood bravely by her side."
"The idea of a passive libido is disconcerting because the libido has been defined as a drive, as energy based on the male; but one could no more conceive a priori of a light being both yellow and blue: the intuition of green is needed."
"Lucretia's suicide had no more than a symbolic value."
"Given the complexity of the social context of rape today, any attempt to treat it as an isolated phenomenon is bound to founder."
"The best method, I believe, that can be adopted to correct a fondness for novels is to ridicule them; not indiscriminately, for then it would have little effect; but, if a judicious person, with some turn for humour, would read several to a young girl, and point out, both by tones and apt comparisons with pathetic incidents and heroic characters in history, how foolishly and ridiculously they caricatured human nature, just opinions might be substituted instead of romantic sentiments."
"She flatters him, she bows down before him, but she is not a friend for him, since she does not realize he is in danger in the world, that his projects and finalities are as fragile as he himself is; considering him the Law and Truth, she misunderstands his freedom, which is hesitation and anguish."
"Because it is the man who 'takes' the woman and especially when there is a good supply of women he has rather more possibilities for choosing."
"The Meaning of Emancipation"
"Mrs.Z.… attempted suicide."
"The economic arrangements of slavery contradicted the hierarchical sexual roles incorporated in the new ideology."
"The being would not exist without her, and yet he escapes her."
"This regard for reputation, independent of its being one of the natural rewards of virtue, however, took its rise from a cause that I have already deplored as the grand source of female depravity, the impossibility of regaining respectability by a return to virtue, though men preserve theirs during the indulgence of vice."
"This was pneumonia season."
"Marriage is intended to defend her against man's freedom: but as there is neither love nor individuality without freedom, she must renounce the love of a particular individual to ensure the protection of a male for life."
"Mrs. Mazzetti had a number of small children who caused her difficulties, all of them, one after the other."
"Thus are they necessarily dependent on the novelist for amusement."
"The male's vocation is action; he needs to produce, fight, create, progress, go beyond himself toward the totality of the universe and the infinity of the future; but traditional marriage does not invite woman to transcend herself with him; it confines her in immanence."
"deep down, they know well they are lying."
"Lynching was now explained and rationalized as a method to avenge Black men's assaults on white Southern womanhood."
"There is no absolute hierarchy between societies of maternal right and those of paternal right: but only the latter have evolved technically and ideologically."
"The woman of the greatest abilities, undoubtedly, that this country has ever produced."
"In any case, they consider themselves to be unfeeling and satisfy their resentment this way."
"But we know very well that she only exhibits so much love for her husband because she does not love him; this antipathy marks the child conceived in embraces that disgusted her."
"Because of this defeatist attitude, the woman easily settles for a mediocre success; she does not dare to aim higher."
"The last surviving answer came from a sixteen year old attending this new Cincinnati school."
"Quite a different story is told by the age old struggles of the paid household worker, whose condition is more miserable than any other group of workers under capitalism."
"According to Professors Dol ris, Balthazard, and Lacassagne, there were abortions a year around a statistic (cited by Dr. Roy) established in estimated the number at million."
"The supreme necessity for woman is to charm a masculine heart; this is the recompense all heroines aspire to, even if they are intrepid, adventuresome; and only their beauty is asked of them in most cases."
"In many primitive societies her sex even seems innocent:"
"Taking a view of the different works which have been written on education, Lord Chesterfield's Letters must not be silently passed over."
"A good or bad star hovers over them. '"
"These may be termed Utopian dreams."
"The risk of venereal disease is more serious for her in that it is up to him to take precautions to avoid contamination; and, however prudent she may be, she is never completely covered against the threat of becoming pregnant."
"The young girl, though, possesses little of her own except her body: it is her most precious treasure; the man who enters her takes it from her; the familiar word is confirmed by her lived experience."
"impure twelve times.'"
"In the other camp, the apologists outdo themselves in taking up and commenting on Agrippa's arguments."
"The woman, on the other hand, has consented to make herself flesh through her sexual arousal, anticipation, and promise; she could only win by losing: she remains lost."
"She wants to affirm reciprocally that she submits her partner to her pleasure and covers him with her gifts."
"Between women there is a complicity that disarms modesty; the excitement one arouses in the other is generally without violence; homosexual embraces involve neither defloration nor penetration: they satisfy infantile clitoral eroticism without demanding new and disquieting metamorphoses."
"it's the woman who pursues the man,' and so forth."
"she only gives her body if the lover 'takes' hours of conversation and outings into the bargain."
"Not only his ingratitude but the failure of her son will refute all of her hopes:"
"But I don't bring up freshwater.'"
"Other sociological studies have confirmed the acute disillusionment suffered by contemporary housewives."
"In this absence of conditions her love is a faith; woman has no other faith."
"You, especially, the first one.'"
"I read between the lines; it seemed to me that he was answering me, giving me advice; I wrote him love letters; I wrote to him a lot"
"Either it realizes itself as a purely abstract opposition it is an obstacle and remains foreign or it passively submits to man's desire and allows itself to be assimilated by him; he possesses it only in consuming it, that is, in destroying it."
"Around the same time, more prosperous white women began to fight for the right to education and for access to careers outside their homes."
"In masochism, she will wildly enslave herself to the male, she will tell him words of adoration, she will wish to be humiliated, beaten; she will alienate herself more and more deeply out of fury for having agreed to the alienation."
"Clearly this morbid daydreaming was essentially to satiate the girl's narcissism, as she feels that her life was inadequate and is afraid to confront the reality of her existence."
"now like the idle ones of convalescence.'"
"If the hero, the giant, or the demigod responds to the love he inspires and transforms it into a real life experience, the girl panics; her idol becomes a male she shies away from, disgusted."
"This feeling of guilt can be expressed in pathological melancholies."
"Can events be foretold, events which have not yet assumed a body to become subject to mortal inspection, can they be foreseen by a vicious worldling, who pampers his appetites by preying on the foolish ones?"
"If he is rich, he covers her with furs and jewels."
"The phenomena of ecstasy are approximately the same for Saint Teresa and Marie Alacoque: the interest of their message is very different."
"This was a period, he argued, of diminishing solidarity with Black people."
"Thus narcissism leads to masochism: this liaison has already been seen in the child who dreams of Bluebeard, of Griselda, of the martyred saints."
"Her mind's freedom enables her to take responsibility for all the movements of her curiosity, her ambition, her gaiety; faced with such a resolute heart, material obstacles cannot fail to decrease; her only problem will be to carve out a destiny worthy of her in a mediocre world."
"Anthony would never have made such a statement if she had familiarized herself with the realities of working class families."
"Besides, by the exercise of their bodies and minds, women would acquire that mental activity so necessary in the maternal character, united with the fortitude that distinguishes steadiness of conduct from the obstinate perverseness of weakness."
"Girls were brought up like boys; the wife was not confined to her husband's household; he was only allowed furtive nocturnal visits; and his wife belonged to him so loosely that another man could claim a union with her in the name of eugenics: the very notion of adultery disappears when inheritance disappears; as all the children belonged to the city as a whole, women were not jealously enslaved to a master: or it can be explained inversely, that possessing neither personal wealth nor individual ancestry, the citizen does not possess a woman either."
"She reminded me of everything I learned with the nurse."
"Why should we injure our health by close study?"
"The power of women, says some author, is her sensibility; and men not aware of the consequence, do all they can to make this power swallow up every other."
"The girl is convinced that she has limited capacities."
"Sometimes the man smilingly encourages them: it pleases him to see his measured opinions reflected in a fanatical form; but sometimes he is also bothered by the stupid and stubborn way his own ideas are transformed."
"If I, he may thus argue, who exercise my own mind, and have been refined by tribulation, find the serpent's egg in some fold of my heart, and crush it with difficulty, shall not I pity those who are stamped with less vigour, or who have heedlessly nurtured the insidious reptile till it poisoned the vital stream it sucked?"
"Her used metro tickets were also objects of our collectors' rage."
"Stendhal's emphasis."
"Manners and morals are so nearly allied, that they have often been confounded; but, though the former should only be the natural reflection of the latter, yet, when various causes have produced factitious and corrupt manners, which are very early caught, morality becomes an empty name."
"The analogy between the woman and the doll remains until the adult age; in French, a woman is vulgarly called a doll; in English, a dressed up woman is said to be 'dolled up.'"
"I mean between them."
"; property grants her sovereignty: she governs the fief that she owns, meaning she dispenses justice, signs treaties, and decrees laws."
"The wife is not allowed to do any positive work and consequently to have herself known as a complete person."
"Then Agrippa declares that women are more virtuous than men."
"The leaders of the women's rights movement did not suspect that the enslavement of Black people in the South, the economic exploitation of Northern workers and the social oppression of women might be systematically related."
"Her brother was also equally averse to writing: it was the confinement, however, and not the constrained attitude, that most disgusted him."
"for I know that the behaviour of a few women, who by accident, or following a strong bent of nature, have acquired a portion of knowledge superior to that of the rest of their sex, has often been over bearing; but there have been instances of women who, attaining knowledge, have not discarded modesty, nor have they always pedantically appeared to despise the ignorance which they laboured to disperse in their own minds."
"In public schools women, to guard against the errors of ignorance, should be taught the elements of anatomy and medicine, not only to enable them to take proper care of their own health, but to make them rational nurses of their infants, parents, and husbands; for the bills of mortality are swelled by the blunders of self willed old women, who give nostrums of their own, without knowing any thing of the human frame."
"Her father is described as extremely strict and narrow minded."
"She explains her passion for these examinations by the first touch that had caused the first orgasm of her life."
"The moment woman is viewed as a person, she can only be conquered with her consent; she must be won."
"Before she was married, she had dreamed of herself as moving softly about her new dwelling, deftly moving a vase here or straightening a flower there, and thus transforming it from a house to a home."
"my emphasis In this particular conversation with Ida."
"I married a witch with a dowry."
"She could not sing one note, bridges with the world were burnt The fianc admitted having followed her to Rome where she gave herself to him after resisting a long time; she had crying fits"
"Systematically art must prepare her advent into the empire of tangible things.'"
"In this metropolis a number of lurking leeches infamously gain a subsistence by practising on the credulity of women, pretending to cast nativities, to use the technical phrase; and many females who, proud of their rank and fortune, look down on the vulgar with sovereign contempt, show by this credulity, that the distinction is arbitrary, and that they have not sufficiently cultivated their minds to rise above vulgar prejudices."
"I do not love I gain in intelligence, in sangfroid, in ordinary lucidity."
"This argument branches into various ramifications."
"Her mother decided she ought to explain that the little brother grew inside her stomach like plants in the earth."
"He asked me to come see him"
"But few could equal Mary Church Terrell as an advocate of Black Liberation through the written and spoken word."
"Because man is transcendence and ambition, he projects new demands with each new tool: after having invented bronze instruments, he was no longer satisfied with developing gardens and wanted instead to clear and cultivate vast fields."
"The woman's body is an object to be purchased; for her it represents capital"
"Cold would be the heart of a husband, were he not rendered unnatural by early debauchery, who did not feel more delight at seeing his child suckled by its mother, than the most artful wanton tricks could ever raise; yet this natural way of cementing the matrimonial tie, and twisting esteem with fonder recollections, wealth leads women to spurn."
"Unfortunately, the racist prejudices were so strong that Lucy Prince's logic and eloquence could not sway the trustees of this Vermont institution."
"And that is why you woke me up?'"
"So as to tear woman from nature, so as to subjugate her to man through ceremonies and contracts, she was elevated to the dignity of a human person; she was granted freedom."
"When you are not there, it seems not even worthwhile to greet the day; everything that happens to me seems lifeless, I am no more than a little empty dress thrown on a chair,' writes cile Sauvage early in her marriage."
"Working women did not raise the banner of suffrage en masse until the early twentieth century, when their own struggles forged special reasons for demanding the right to vote."
"In fact, the care necessary for self preservation is the first natural exercise of the understanding, as little inventions to amuse the present moment unfold the imagination."
"Although it was clear that she would be arrested, she chose to speak about lynching to the white Oakland clubwomen."
"She shares with Him in some way the patience and power of creation.'"
"All possibility of concrete communication with others is removed from her; in her experience she does not recognize either the appeal or the advantages of solidarity, since, separated, she is entirely devoted to her own family; she cannot be expected therefore to go beyond herself toward the general interest."
"At best, this noncommittal posture on the struggle for Black equality constituted an acquiescence to racism, and at worst, it was a deliberate incentive, on the part of an influential mass organization, for the violence and devastation spawned by the white supremacist forces of the times."
"There is no longer any place on earth for magic: God alone is king."
"Yet, since kings have been more under the restraint of law, and the curb, however weak, of honour, the records of history are not filled with such unnatural instances of folly and cruelty, nor does the despotism that kills virtue and genius in the bud, hover over Europe with that destructive blast which desolates Turkey, and renders the men, as well as the soil unfruitful."
"and she believes that women's liberation would weaken bourgeois society; liberated from the male, she would be condemned to work; while she might regret having her rights to private property subordinated to her husband's, she would deplore even more having this property abolished; she feels no solidarity with working class women:"
"With respect to religion, she never presumed to judge for herself; but conformed, as a dependent creature should, to the ceremonies of the church which she was brought up in, piously believing, that wiser heads than her own have settled that business: and not to doubt is her point of perfection."
"Still beautiful and attractive, she had absolutely no leisure time to have a social life, to flirt, or to make any of the usual efforts necessary for seduction, which in any case would have bored her."
"This is why she is so deeply humiliated if he rejects her advances."
"yet this heartless attention to the sex is reckoned so manly, so polite, that till society is very differently organized, I fear, this vestige of gothic manners will not be done away by a more reasonable and affectionate mode of conduct."
"Appearing as the Other, woman appears at the same time as a plenitude of being by opposition to the nothingness of existence that man experiences in itself; the Other, posited as object in the subject's eyes, is posited as in itself, thus as being."
"She is occupied, but she does not do anything; because she does not do anything, she has nothing"
"I shall not pursue this argument any further than to establish an obvious inference, that as sound politics diffuse liberty, mankind, including woman, will become more wise and virtuous."
"Then she became mortally ill and decided to go to a doctor."
"It was known that a married colleague had often come to see her when she was ill, that she was first happy about it, but that later on she had had hallucinations and attempted"
"The statistical argument and the call for a literacy requirement had been heard many times before by delegates to previous conventions."
"The fate that until now has weighed on her ambivalently and from the outside is lodged in her belly; there is no escape; she feels trapped."
"A woman who is very sure of her masculinity will want only men as friends and associates: this assurance is rarely seen except in a woman who shares interests with men, who in business, action, or art works and succeeds like a man."
"This participation of woman in public life has raised a difficult problem: her role in family life."
"Boys are better: they do not have to suffer like women"
"He lists 'virtuous women' that the sex can take pride in, which is also a commonplace of these praises."
"Or else she is seen as an alienated activity: there is a devil raging in her womb, a serpent lurks in her vagina, craving to devour male sperm."
"Besides, as soon as 'sexual' and 'genital' are distinguished, the notion of sexuality becomes blurred. '"
"One feels a demanding severity the opposite of authentic esteem for an individual who is loved in his freedom and humanity, whereas a woman kneeling before her male can very well pride herself on 'knowing how to deal with him,' or 'handle him,' and she complaisantly flatters his 'weaknesses' without his losing prestige; this is the proof that she does not feel friendship for his individual person as expressed in his real acts; blindly she bows to the general essence"
"On such a supposition, I speak with reverence, he would be a consuming fire."
"Pain is normally part of erotic frenzy; bodies that delight in being bodies for their reciprocal joy seek to find each other, unite with each other, and confront each other in every possible way."
"You are not a virgin!'"
"In the last stage of pregnancy begins the separation between mother and child."
"Faced with the woman, the man tastes the pleasure of contemplation; she intoxicates him like a landscape or a painting; she sings in his heart and lights up the sky."
"This observation is the result of experience; for I have known several notable women, and one in particular, who was a very good woman as good as such a narrow mind would allow her to be, who took care that her daughters (three in number) should never see a novel."
"and I will be heard."
"In feminists hold a new congress, again without significant results."
"Whether from infantile fixation or masculine protest, homosexuality would appear in any case as unfinished development."
"As for the husband, he sees a 'baby' in his wife; for him she is not the companion he expected, and he makes her feel it; she is humiliated by it."
"It is not, I assert, a bold attempt to emulate masculine virtues; it is not the enchantment of literary pursuits, or the steady investigation of scientific subjects, that lead women astray from duty."
"This title might be a confusion and combination of Le cabinet satyrique and Le parnasse des po tes satyriques."
"When I then got into bed, Mama opened my bedroom door: she came to explain things to me."
"But nonetheless her physical weakness does not allow the woman to learn the lessons of violence: if it were possible to assert herself in her body and be part of the world in some other way, this deficiency would be easily compensated."
"Talk about the Spanish Inquisition!"
"these are the women who know better than anyone else what it means to receive wages for housework."
"Oh my dear, tell, will you love me longer still?"
"She sees herself as being raped, beaten, and her husband is not himself but an Other."
"the seeds and roots planted by them bore fruit far more abundantly than if they had been planted by male hands' (Frazer)."
"German socialists, along with Bebel, advocated the abolition of the inequality of the sexes."
"A young married woman thought she was pregnant and was extremely happy about it; separated from her husband by a trip, she had a very brief adventure that she accepted"
"It is amusing to observe that the idol chosen is"
"DuBois' appeals were impressive not only for their lucidity and persuasiveness, but also for their relative lack of male supremacist undertones."
"One saw only a strong, beautiful, and fruitful female."
"Her main demand is for women's right to education: 'If the custom were to put little girls in school and they were normally taught sciences like the boys, they would learn as perfectly and would understand the subtleties of all the arts and sciences as they do.'"
"Her self esteem is satisfied."
"In particular, making her life a play offered to public applause, she will take delight in really staging herself."
"Sillages (Sea Wakes). 'Pareilles,' trans."
"When they revered the Mother Goddess, it is because Nature frightened them, and as soon as the bronze tool enabled them to assert themselves against Nature, they instituted patriarchy; henceforth it was the family state conflict that has defined woman's status; it is the attitude of the Christian before God, the world, and his own flesh that is reflected in the condition he assigned to her;"
"It was very embarrassing for her to be treated as a woman, and she was truly in anguish at having to wear feminine clothes."
"Montesquieu, paradoxically, believes that women should be subordinate to man in the home but that everything predisposes them to political action. '"
"But it is real love that will transfigure his life. '"
"When her imagination is not lost in vain dreams, she becomes full of sympathy: she tries to understand the other in his uniqueness and re create him in herself; regarding her husband, her lover, she is capable of true identification: she makes his projects and his cares her own in a way he could not imitate."
"The noble deeds that intoxicate him are also merely gestures, never undertakings: he is touched by Peregrinus's suicide, Pasipha 's boldness, and the elegance of the Japanese who shelters his opponent under his umbrella before taking his life in a duel."
"The conversation of French women, who are not so rigidly nailed to their chairs, to twist lappets, and knot ribbands, is frequently superficial; but, I contend, that it is not half so insipid as that of those English women, whose time is spent in making caps, bonnets, and the whole mischief of trimmings, not to mention shopping, bargain hunting, etc."
"And like Douglass' master, the former slaveholders realized that '… if you give a nigger an inch, he will take an ell."
"They are fortunate in working and living in the same place, and the work is not generally too consuming."
"One of the arguments of American slaveholders and defenders of slavery is that, released from slavish drudgery, Southern whites could establish the most democratic and refined relations with each other; likewise, the existence of a caste of 'lost women' makes it possible to treat 'the virtuous woman' with the most chivalric respect."
"Women, I pity thee!'"
"slavery of any kind is unfavourable to human happiness and improvement.'"
"Boys, like girls, admire the mystery of motherhood; all children have an 'in depth' imagination that makes them sense secret riches inside things; they are all sensitive to the miracle of 'nesting,' dolls that contain other, smaller dolls, boxes containing other boxes, vignettes identically reproduced in reduced form; they are all enchanted when a bud is unfolded before their eyes, when they are shown a chick in its shell or the surprise of 'Japanese flowers' in a bowl of water."
"They, therefore, who complain of the delusions of passion, do not recollect that they are exclaiming against a strong proof of the immortality of the soul."
"Just as a Black man Frederick Douglass had been the most outstanding male advocate of women's equality during the nineteenth century, so."
"I wish to sum up what I have said in a few words, for I here throw down my gauntlet, and deny the existence of sexual virtues, not excepting modesty."
"When I come to that division of the subject, I shall advert to the passages that I more particularly disapprove of, in the works of the authors I have just alluded to; but it is first necessary to observe, that my objection extends to the whole purport of those books, which tend, in my opinion, to degrade one half of the human species, and render women pleasing at the expense of every solid virtue."
"These brothers are, to view the fairest side of the question, good sort of men, and give as a favour, what children of the same parents had an equal right to."
"Virtually all the slave narratives of the nineteenth century contain accounts of slave women's sexual victimization at the hands of masters and overseers."
"As with Bonald, woman is confined to the family, and within this micro society the father governs because woman is 'inept in all government evendomestic'; she only administers and advises."
"In all fairness to such feminist leaders as Stanton and Anthony, it must be said that the former abolitionist men in the were not always shining advocates of sexual equality."
"When the suffering he imposed on me was too great, I murmured 'Thank you, my lordship,' and there came a moment when, almost faltering from suffering, I placed, so as not to shout, my lips on his hand, while, some movement finally breaking my heart, I reached one of these states in which one desires to die from too much happiness."
"Rejecting any a priori doctrine, any implausible theory, we find ourselves before a fact that has neither ontological nor empirical basis and whose impact cannot a priori be understood."
"As soon as she thinks, dreams, sleeps, desires, and aspires without orders, she betrays the masculine ideal."
"Social changes and the practice of birth control have taken much of the force out of these motives."
"After a quarter of a century of 'freedom,' vast numbers of Black women were still working in the fields."
"And in Renaud de Montauban, there is this diatribe: 'Go back into your painted and golden quarters, sit ye down in the shade, drink, eat, embroider, dye silk, but do not busy yourself with our affairs."
"She seemed totally satisfied and the next day she teased her mother: 'Papa told me that Fritz was a little angel and was brought down from heaven by the stork.'"
"The book Dr. Roy dedicated totain in is a striking example; it is a monument of bad faith."
"One understands that simple ataraxia, in her eyes, can be of utmost importance, as she normally lives in the tension of denial, recrimination, and demands; one could never reproach her for savoring a beautiful afternoon or the sweetness of an evening."
"She is the foundation of destiny."
"like Mme Du Ch telet, for example, they have their own physics workshops or chemistry laboratory; they experiment"
"The mundium becomes the guardian's responsibility; his duty is to protect his ward: this protection brings about the same slavery for woman as in the past."
"Dr. Gregory goes much further; he actually recommends dissimulation, and advises an innocent girl to give the lie to her feelings, and not dance with spirit, when gaiety of heart would make her feet eloquent, without making her gestures immodest."
"Thus man is not only one of the terms of the couple, but also their relationship; he is their surpassing: 'The bridge to the future is the phallus.'"
"But she never forgave those three tormented weeks and became frigid."
"In Regiment of Women, Clemence Dane uses a chaste style to describe ardently burning passions."
"This is only a covert fear, the apprehensive timidity of indolent slugs, who guard, by sliming it over, the snug place, which they consider in the light of an hereditary estate; and eat, drink, and enjoy themselves, instead of fulfilling the duties, excepting a few empty forms, for which it was endowed."
"But of course there are particular circumstances that confer such a great importance upon them."
"The woman whom I allude to was handsome, reckoned very handsome, by those who do not miss the mind when the face is plump and fair; but her understanding had not been led from female duties by literature, nor her innocence debauched by knowledge."
"Jacques, perhaps 'We loved each other too much for it to be right for us to belong to each other, for it to be good to be each other's.'"
"She adorns herself with bizarre ornaments, shirtless, often naked, with a tinfoil diadem on her head and string or ribbon bracelets on her arms, her wrists, her shoulders, her ankles."
"The vacations are equally injurious to the morals of the masters and pupils, and the intercourse, which the former keep up with the nobility, introduces the same vanity and extravagance into their families, which banishdomestic duties and comforts from the lordly mansion, whose state is awkwardly aped on a smaller scale."
"Mme Guyon writes: 'Love gave me no respite."
"She decides not to partake in this ridiculous cult."
"Often the eldest daughter, the father's favorite, is the target of the mother's persecution."
"But this accomplishment would never have been realized if man had not originally wanted it; the lesson of labor is not inscribed in a passive subject: the subject forged and conquered himself in forging his tools and conquering the earth."
"The reason is that the solar principle triumphs over earthly banality; but this principle does not inform any aim: it calls for destruction, nothing more, as has already been seen."
"My companion tried to calm me; but he succeeded only after much resistance."
"The club movement among colored women reaches into the sub condition of the entire race."
"In her autobiography she described her persistent efforts to educate herself during slavery."
"Three sisters, unhappy or troubled in their loves, gather every night around the old sofa from their childhood; there they relax, pondering the worries of the day, preparing tomorrow's battles, tasting the ephemeral pleasures of a reparative rest, a good sleep, a warm bath, a crying session, they barely speak, but each one creates a nesting space for the others; and everything taking place with them is real."
"Expressing shock that '… whole families of women fail to have any children,' this doctor never considered how 'unnatural'"
"Many examples have already proven to us that this dream of annihilation is in fact an avid will to be."
"The Child,' in Playing a Losing Game."
"So for the male lover, the love act is conquest and victory."
"The man captivated by her spell loses his will, his project, his future; he is no longer a citizen but flesh, slave to his desires, he is crossed out of the community, enclosed in the instant, thrown passively from torture to pleasure; the perverse magician pits passion against duty, the present against the unity of time, she keeps the traveler far from home, she spreads forgetfulness."
"Baby, just a common fit."
"eyes everywhere, hands waiting; if she wanders absentmindedly, her thoughts elsewhere, if she lights a cigarette in a caf if she goes to the cinema alone, an unpleasant incident can quickly occur; she must inspire respect by the way she dresses and behaves: this concern rivets her to the ground and to self. '"
"I feel that we have been with him; that the iron has entered into our souls."
"Either she will anxiously watch the man's behavior, or else, once intercourse is over, she will run to the bathroom to chase the living germ from her belly, put there in spite of herself."
"But these philosophers are exceptional in their impartiality."
"What is the point of her moving every object and every piece of furniture and going over all the floors, the walls, and the ceilings from the time she gets up till the time she goes to bed?"
"Girls marry to get married."
"Proudhon is less scrupulous: according to him, separating love from marriage conforms to justice:"
"The reserve of reason, which like habitual cleanliness, is seldom seen in any great degree, unless the soul is active, may easily be distinguished from rustic shyness or wanton skittishness; and so far from being incompatible with knowledge, it is its fairest fruit."
"I had the infantile image that the man was supposed to urinate in the woman's vagina"
"And Ren Vivien expresses the same feeling: Come, I shall carry you off like a child who is sick, Like a child who is plaintive and fearful and sick."
"Saint Paul commands self effacement and reserve from women; he bases the principle of subordination of women to man on the Old and New Testaments. '"
"But not content with this natural pre eminence"
"They know how to describe atmosphere and people, to show the subtle relations between them, and let us share in the secret workings of their souls: Willa Cather, Edith Wharton, Dorothy Parker, and Katherine Mansfield have sharply and sensitively brought to life individuals, climates, and civilizations."
"Females, it is true, in all countries, are too much under thedominion of their parents; and few parents think of addressing their children in the following manner, though it is in this reasonable way that Heaven seems to command the whole human race."
"I will go singing to the gallows rather than be returned to slavery.'"
"her face begins to show the early signs of the disintegration brought on by age."
"In the eyes of the suffragists, 'woman' was the ultimate test if the cause of woman could be furthered, it was not wrong for women to function as scabs when male workers in their trade were on strike."
"Thus, in this story by Stekel: Mrs.Z. was forty years old, had three children and twenty years of married life behind her when she began to think she was misunderstood, that she had wasted her life; she took up various new activities among which was going skiing in the mountains; there she met a thirty year old man and became his mistress; but soon after, he fell in love with Mrs.Z.'s daughter"
"When she smiles into the mirror, she forgets her carnal contingence; in love's embrace, in motherhood, her image disappears."
"they could only be removed by surgical interference: Pencils, sticks of sealing wax, cotton reels, hair pins (and in Italy very commonly the bone pins used in the hair), bodkins, knitting needles, crochet needles, needle cases, compasses, glass stoppers, candles, corks, tumblers, forks, tooth picks, toothbrushes, pomade pots (in a case recorded by Schroeder with a cockchafer inside, a makeshift substitute for the Japanese rin"
"Furthermore, they learned how to challenge male supremacy within the anti slavery movement."
"I rub my eyes and think, perchance, that I am just awaking from a lively dream."
"But what is true of friendship is true of physical love: for friendship to be authentic, it must first be free."
"She cannot accept that her daughter will really become her double, a substitute of herself."
"(Women's Work in the Nineteenth Century), published in denounce loathsome abuses"
"Woman uses this ambivalence to assign more truth to a garden than a city, to an illness than an idea, to a birth than a revolution; she tries to reestablish this reign of the earth, of the Mother, imagined by Bachofen, to be able to find herself as the essential facing the inessential."
"Neither was the Asiatic Great Mother assumed to have a husband: she had engendered the world and reigned over it alone; she could be lascivious by impulse, but her greatness as Mother was not diminished by imposed wifely servitudes."
"A young man who has been bred up withdomestic friends, and led to store his mind with as much speculative knowledge as can be acquired by reading and the natural reflections which youthful ebullitions of animal spirits and instinctive feelings inspire, will enter the world with warm and erroneous expectations."
"Here is another case reported by Stekel: Mrs.N.…, raised very prudishly, trembled at the idea of her wedding night."
"To render chastity the virtue from which unsophisticated modesty will naturally flow, the attention should be called away from employments, which only exercise the sensibility; and the heart made to beat time to humanity, rather than to throb with love."
"Since, then, in this relationship of the wife there is an admixture of particularity, her ethical life is not pure; but in so far as it is ethical, the particularity is a matter of indifference, and the wife is without the moment of knowing herself as this particular self in the other partner."
"Wait, I haven't finished.'"
"The mother demands that the child god's projects conform to her own ideal and that their success be assured."
"In the early Middle Ages, moral license was such that women of pleasure were hardly necessary; but when the bourgeois family became institutionalized and monogamy rigorous, man obviously had to go outside the home for his pleasure."
"Many boys, frightened by the harsh independence they are condemned to, thus desire to be girls; in times when they were first dressed as girls, they cried when they had to give dresses up for long pants and had to have their curls cut."
"A woman who assumes the masculine attitude by her character, situation, and the force of her passion will regret not giving her woman friend a normal and respectable life, not being able to marry her, leading her along unusual paths: these are the feelings Radclyffe Hall attributes to her heroine in The Well of Loneliness; this remorse is conveyed by a morbid anxiety and an even greater torturous jealousy."
"Often she understands her mistake; and so she tries to reaffirm her freedom, to find her alterity; she becomes flirtatious."
"In aiding them to descend from an usurped throne, he has firmly seated them upon that to which they were destined by nature; and though he be full of indignation against them when they endeavour to resemble men, yet when they come before him with all and their sex, his respect for their amounts almost to adoration."
"The Muse is the conduit between the creator and the natural springs he draws from."
"But in reality this golden age of Woman is only a myth."
"And since love is even more than ever her essential preoccupation, it is understandable that she lets herself go to the illusion that she is loved."
"Even Colette yields to this moralizing wave in L'ing nue libertine (The Innocent Libertine), when, after describing the cynical experiences of a clumsily deflowered young bride, she has her experience sexual pleasure in her husband's arms."
"Engels sidestepped the problem; he limits himself to declaring that the socialist community will abolish the family, quite an abstract solution; everyone knows how often and how radically"
"so they could not be driven away."
"In the name of reason, and even common sense, what can save such beings from contempt; even though they be soft and fair?"
"And thanks to the mystery, this negative relation that seemed to Kierkegaard infinitely preferable to positive possession is perpetuated; faced with a living enigma, man remains alone: alone with his dreams, hopes, fears, love, vanity; this subjective game that can range from vice to mystical ecstasy is for many a more attractive experience than an authentic relation with a human being."
"And since she was subjugated as Mother, she will, as Mother first, be cherished and respected."
"It is interesting to note (according to."
"She tries makeup, hairstyles; instead of hiding her breasts, she massages them to make them bigger; she studies her smile in the mirror."
"This worrying disappointment is moreover linked as much to marriage itself as it is to defloration: a woman who had already 'known' her fianc or who had 'known' other men, but for whom marriage represents the full accession to adult life will often have the same reaction."
"The heads of state, generals, explorers, musicians, and painters she admires are men; it is men who make her heart beat with enthusiasm."
"my room in order to remove the least traces of an odor that had become hateful to me in an instant."
"Since woman never stopped being Other, of course, male and female are never reciprocally considered flesh: the flesh for the Christian male is the enemy Other and is not distinguished from woman."
"But when society is reorganized, she is rigidly enslaved again."
"the heavy ransom inflicted on the woman in exchange for a brief and uncertain pleasure are often the object of various jokes. '"
"Man will not, therefore, agree to share his property or his children with woman."
"He also says: Even the pleasures they get in making love to their wives are condemned, unless moderation is observed; and it is possible to err through licentiousness and debauchery, just as in an illicit affair."
"Woman experiences this conflict at its most dramatic because she assumes herself first as object and does not immediately find a confident autonomy in pleasure; she has to reconquer her dignity as transcendent and free subject while assuming her carnal condition: this is a delicate and risky enterprise that often fails."
"And I should not fear any other consequence, than that some early attachment might take place; which, whilst it had the best effect on the moral character of the young people"
"Yet it is not necessary that a minister should feel like a man, when a bold push might shake his seat."
"Women thus infallibly become only the wanton solace of men, when they are so weak in mind and body, that they cannot exert themselves, unless to pursue some frothy pleasure, or to invent some frivolous fashion."
"If she is asked 'How did you live before?'"
"Saint Teresa's texts are not at all ambiguous, and they justify Bernini's statue showing us the swooning saint in thrall to a stunning sensuality; it would be no less false to interpret her emotions as simple 'sexual sublimation'; there is not first an unavowed sexual desire that takes the form of divine love; the woman in love herself is not first the prey of a desire without object that then fixes itself on an individual; it is the presence of the lover that arouses an excitement in her immediately intended to him; thus, in one movement, Saint Teresa seeks to unite with God and experiences this union in her body; she is not slave to her nerves and hormones:"
"This fact is striking in the cultural field, the area in which they have been the most successful in asserting themselves."
"Now that they have given up seduction, clothes often become once again a gratuitous game for them as in their childhood."
"By when the Philadelphia Female Anti Slavery Society was born in the wake of the founding convention of the American Anti Slavery Society, enough white women were manifesting their sympathetic attitudes toward the Black people's cause to have established the basis for a bond between the two oppressed groups."
"The shameful indolence of many married women, and others a little advanced in life, frequently leads them to sin against delicacy."
"Is this the man who delights to paint the useful struggles of passion, the triumphs of good dispositions, and the heroic flights which carry the glowing soul out of itself?"
"In one of their earliest activist endeavors, they raised funds to prosecute a policeman who had killed a Black man."
"Again with another girl I discussed the possible length of the male membrum; I had heard that it was to cm long."
"His father's house was his home, and was ever after fondly remembered; nay, I appeal to some superior men who were educated in this manner, whether the recollection of some shady lane where they conned their lesson; or, of some stile, where they sat making a kite, or mending a bat, has not endeared their country to them?"
"Besides, the law that dooms young women to death, sterility, and illness is totally powerless to ensure an increase of births."
"Marie Bashkirtseff, so avid for glory, spent hours in front of her easel; but she loved herself too much to seriously love to paint."
"At no time in her life does she succeed in being both effective and independent."
"Moreover, percent of the women sterilized through federally subsidized programs were Black."
"Mme Kr dener describes herself like this: She has something special that I have never yet seen in any woman."
"If the little girl reads the newspapers, if she listens to adult conversation, she notices that today, as in the past, men lead the world."
"Mrs.S., a great artist's widow, is now forty years old."
"This is how she exacts vengeance both on him and on herself if he has humiliated her by his negligence, if he has aroused her jealousy, if he has declared himself too slowly, if he has made her his mistress when she desired marriage; the complaint can appear suddenly and set off this reaction even during a relationship that began happily."
"All our attainments, all our arts, are employed to gain and keep the heart of man; and what mortification can exceed the disappointment,"
"Great numbers of slaves also wanted to be 'unfit' for the harrowing existence they led."
"This is part of the reason agricultural work is entrusted to woman: able to call up the ancestral larvae within her, she also has the power to make fruit and wheat spring from the sowed fields."
"Helene Deutsch cites the case of a young nursing mother whose milk dried up whenever her mother came to see her; she often solicits help, but is jealous of the care someone else gives to the baby and feels depressed about this."
"Existence is not only an abstract destiny inscribed in town hall registers; it is future and carnal richness."
"Montherlant wants woman to be despicable."
"Slaveowning industrialists used men, women and children alike, and when planters and farmers hired out their slaves, they found women and children in as great demand as men."
"Accompanying her father, she became familiar with street speaking, which was a typical radical tactic of the period."
"Being poorly adapted to men's society, she is often forced to invent her own conduct; she is less able to settle for ready made patterns and clich s; if she is of goodwill, her apprehensions are closer to authenticity than is her husband's self confidence."
"We have seen the poetic veils used to hide the monotonous burdens she bears: housework and maternity; in exchange for her freedom she was given fallacious treasures of 'femininity' as a gift."
"All girls got married And when girls got married, they had a cottage, and a lamp, maybe, to light when their man came home, or if it was only candles"
"Seated at her desk, musing over vague stories, the woman acquires a peaceful alibi in imagining she is a writer: but she must at some point make signs on the blank page; they have to have a meaning in the eyes of others."
"We had parties at my house."
"He is influenced by Fourier, who confuses the liberation of woman with the restoration of the flesh; Fourier demands the right of all individuals to follow their passionate attractions; he wants to replace marriage with love; he considers the woman not as a person but only in her amorous functions."
"The myth of woman plays a significant role in literature; but what is its importance in everyday life?"
"Finding a pretext that permits her to elude concrete experiences, the adolescent girl often develops an intense imaginary life."
"At certain periods seeming to correspond to menstrual periods she gets up, drapes herself in her bedcovers, strikes theatrical attitudes, poses, smiles at doctors, or looks at them ironically"
"vulgarly self serving, selfish, she is a liar and an actress."
"How strangely must the mind be sophisticated when this sort of state impresses it!"
"If Black people had simply accepted a status of economic and political inferiority, the mob murders would probably have subsided."
"The of humanity have been thus confined to the male line from Adam downwards."
"It must either become one vast slaveocracy of petty tyrants, or wholly the land of the free Angelina Grimke's brilliant 'Address to the Soldiers of Our Second Revolution' demonstrated that her political consciousness was far more advanced than most of her contemporaries."
"She will behave like the seductive and ostentatious girl waiting for Prince Charming; when she is walking beside him, elegant and still charming, she thinks she looks like his 'older sister'; she is delighted if taking after the heroes of American films he teases and jostles her, laughing and respectful: with proud humility she recognizes the virile superiority of the one she carried in her womb."
"I was borne on a shield of privilege and solicitude."
"In refusing to defend their Black sister, the symbolically abandoned the entire Black people at the moment of their most intense suffering since emancipation."
"And I, now, I'm fed up with solitude, and I want people not only around me but with me Living now and no longer existing and waiting and dreaming and telling yourself everything within yourself, your mouth shut and your body motionless."
"But passion blinds her; after a few steps, to tell the truth, she would have sat down, or else"
"Men and women were created equal: they are both moral and accountable human beings.'"
"Yet, when the sensibility is thus increased at the expense of reason, and even the imagination, why do philosophical men complain of their fickleness?"
"Why the Black abolitionist Charles Remond is not mentioned in Stanton's description of the events is rather puzzling."
"Probably the prevailing opinion, that woman was created for man, may have taken its rise from Moses's poetical story; yet, as very few it is presumed, who have bestowed any serious thought on the subject, ever supposed that Eve was, literally speaking, one of Adam's ribs, the deduction must be allowed to fall to the ground; or, only be so far admitted as it proves that man, from the remotest antiquity, found it convenient to exert his strength to subjugate his companion, and his invention to show that she ought to have her neck bent under the yoke; because she as well as the brute creation, was created to do his pleasure."
"And indeed, for Southern Blacks, the Union victory did not really mean that the violence of war had been entirely halted."
"in any case, she felt free to behave unconventionally."
"sure of herself and in a fighting mood, a woman will gladly engage in a duel she is sure to win."
"For instance, botany, mechanics, and astronomy."
"This train of reasoning brings me back to a subject, on which I mean to dwell, the necessity of establishing proper day schools."
"Montaigne demonstrates this point of view in the third book of his Essays: They are incomparably more capable and ardent than we in the acts of love and that priest of antiquity"
"It is not possible to transform marketing into a treasure hunt every day, nor to delight in a shiny water tap."
"The relations the mystic has with the divine absence depend on his fervor alone: but the deified man who is not God is present."
"Among the scores of clubs represented in the Federation, the one club deemed inadmissible carried a mark of distinction which could be claimed by no more than two of the white women's groups."
"They openly count on the woman to consent to making herself guilty of a crime: her 'immorality' is necessary for the harmony of moral society, respected by men."
"I detested him because of his ways."
"It is no coincidence that it has spawned a whole body of ribald literature: the separation of the social and the animal necessarily produces obscenity."
"On the contrary, if the lover or husband is clumsy, he will arouse an inferiority complex in her that is sometimes compounded by long lasting neuroses; and she will hold a grudge that will be expressed in a stubborn frigidity."
"Even if the woman is not of irreproachable beauty, she will see her soul's unique riches appear on her face, and that will be enough to make her drunk."
"More instability and less control make them more emotional, which is directly linked to vascular variations: palpitations, redness, and so on; and they are thus subject to convulsive attacks: tears, nervous laughter, and hysterics."
"For Black women in freedom must have appeared to be even more remote in the future than it had been at the end of the Civil War."
"She could not 'understand these ninnies who pursued him, she who knew the behind the scenes of the great man's private life.'"
"The demand for universal and subsidized child care is a direct consequence of the rising number of working mothers."
"At college, forced to attend or evade public worship, they acquire an habitual contempt for the very service, the performance of which is to enable them to live in idleness."
"On the other hand, some women think it is a relatively easy ordeal to bear."
"Cannot, therefore, the 'just housewife' role be most effectively challenged by demanding jobs for women on a level of equality with men and by pressing for the social services (child care, for example) and job benefits (maternity leaves, etc.)"
"She dressed, fixed her hair, and made herself up meticulously; but her hardened face, already undone, could barely arouse a new love; and she herself, after twenty years spent in the shadow of a man, could she ever love another?"
"And this, he thinks, develops first identically in both sexes: all children go through an oral phase that fixes them upon their mother's breast, then an anal phase, and finally the genital phase; it is then that they become differentiated."
"spite of the gulf separating Claudel's religious world and Breton's poetic universe, there is an analogy in the role they assign to women: she is an element that perturbs; she wrests man from the sleep of immanence; mouth, key, door, bridge, it is Beatrice initiating Dante into the beyond. '"
"Commenge, in his study, also reports on forty five girls from twelve to seventeen who were deflowered by strangers whom they never saw again; they had consented with indifference, and without experiencing pleasure."
"It is a concrete synthesis of all the moments we have studied separately: 'At the age of five I chose for my playmate Richard, a boy of six or seven For a long time I had wanted to know how one can tell whether a child is a girl or a boy."
"I couldn't count how many men I slept with."
"Adorable, I find myself adorable.'"
"I did not raise you up to me for you to be anything else but me.'"
"Outside of his regular studies, the male student amuses himself by freely exercising his mind, and from there emerge his best discoveries; the woman's daydreams are oriented in a different direction: she will think of her physical appearance, of man, of love, she will give the bare minimum to her studies to her career, whereas in these areas nothing is as necessary as the superfluous."
"This explains why there are many intermediaries between hermaphroditism and gonochorism; very often one of the sexes possesses certain organs characteristic of the complementary sex: the toad is the most striking case of that; the male has an atrophied ovary called Bidder's organ that can be made to produce eggs artificially."
"I came back when the bell rang for"
"In contemporary accounts as in ancient legends, the man is the privileged hero."
"For some primitive peoples, during the days devoted to weeding out gardens, women had the right to brutally rape any stranger that dared to come into the village; attacking him all together, they often left him half dead:"
"For twenty years of waiting, dreaming, and hoping, the young girl has embraced the myth of the liberating hero and savior: independence won through work is not enough to abolish her desire for a glorious abdication."
"and she will reach enchanted paradises; when she realizes she was fooled by a mirage, it is too late; she has been worn out in this adventure."
"Often, she decides to deceive her husband out of resentment."
"Man, out of prudence, destines his wife to chastity, but he does not derive satisfaction from the regime he imposes on her."
"To cure ringworm, for example, 'obtain some blood root slice it in vinegar, and afterwards wash the place affected with the liquid.'"
"In Babylon, Ishtar is only the wife of Bel Marduk; and it is he who created things and guaranteed harmony."
"Giving birth for cows and mares is far more painful and dangerous than for female mice and rabbits."
"The separation woman suffered from in the past during her weaning is compensated for; it is submerged again in the current of life, reintegrated into the whole, a link in the endless chain of generations, flesh that exists for and through another flesh."
"As self preservation is the first law of nature, would it not be wiser to keep our lamps trimmed and burning, and when the constitutional door is open, avail ourselves of the strong arm and blue uniform of the black soldier to walk in by his side, and thus make the gap so wide that no privileged class could ever again close it against the humblest citizen of the republic? '"
"One must not give a husband too much or too little freedom."
"Elizabeth Gurley Flynn became active in the Communist party in and emerged soon afterward as one of the organization's major leaders."
"It would be just as rational to declare, that the courtiers in France, when a destructive system of despotism had formed their character, were not men, because liberty, virtue, and humanity, were sacrificed to pleasure and vanity."
"she fervently felt the need at the age of four or five to be admired and to exist for others: the shock must have been violent in a more mature child, and she had to struggle even harder to overcome the inflicted separation. '"
"Stekel cites a twenty five year old woman who 'could reach a slight orgasm with her husband by imagining that a strong, older man is taking her by force, so she cannot defend herself.'"
"The farces and fabliaux of the Middle Ages reflect a society of artisans, small merchants, and peasants in which the husband's only privilege over his wife is to be able to beat her: but she pits craftiness against force to reestablish equality."
"The chevalier jousts in tournaments for his lady; poets seek woman's approval."
"It was almost pretty to look at, transparent and light like bramble puffs, but more drab The dust had beaten out all the world's vacuum power."
"Some women manifest virile characteristics: too many secretions from the adrenal glands give them masculine characteristics."
"If Dr. Gregory confined his remark to romantic expectations of constant love and congenial feelings, he should have recollected, that experience will banish what advice can never make us cease to wish for, when the imagination is kept alive at the expence of reason."
"Although this may remain a question for politicians to wrangle over for five or ten years, the black man is still, in a political point of view, far above the educated white women of the country."
"The woman still lived under wardship, but she was a close partner of her husband. '"
"and she heard that women often die in childbirth."
"In the name of this halo with which the woman in love adorns her beloved, she forbids him all weakness; she is disappointed and irritated if he does not conform to this image she put in his place; if he is tired, confused, if he is hungry or thirsty when he should not be, if he makes a mistake, if he contradicts himself, she decrees he is 'not himself,' and she reproaches him for this."
"There are many follies, in some degree, peculiar to women: sins against reason, of commission, as well as of omission; but"
"The pope again declared recently that between the mother's life and the child's the former must be sacrificed: the fact is, the mother, being baptized, can enter heaven curiously, hell never enters into these calculations while the fetus is condemned to perpetual limbo."
"Of course, the 'good' servant is always faithful, trustworthy and grateful."
"Alienated in her body and her social dignity, the mother has the pacifying illusion of feeling she is a being in itself, a ready made value."
"There are many cases of perversion, since adolescence, being the age of confusion, is the age of perversion where disgust leads to sacrilege, where temptation is born from the forbidden."
"The woman in love who encloses her lover in the couple's immanence dooms him to death with herself: the narcissist, alienating herself in her imaginary double, destroys herself."
"Work, war, play, and art define ways of being in the world that cannot be reduced to any others; they bring to light features that impinge on those that sexuality reveals; it is both through them and through these erotic experiences that the individual chooses himself."
"keep him at some distance from your person."
": Molly was fourteen when she began to suffer from psychic disorders; she was the fourth child in a family of five siblings."
"and everyone's interest"
"in refusing to agree, she rejects the whole system; she cannot allow herself such a dramatic move; she does not have the means to create another society: yet she does not agree with this one."
"Following the police instigated riot on May in Chicago's Haymarket Square, her husband was one of the eight radical labor leaders arrested by the authorities."
"But this is also a novel experience that presents itself in unforeseen circumstances and to which she freely reacts."
"It is by doing that he makes himself be, in one single movement."
"High school girls and shopgirls burst into laughter while recounting love or risqu stories, while talking about their flirtations, meeting men, or seeing lovers kiss; I have known schoolgirls going to lovers' lane in the Luxembourg Gardens just to laugh; and others going to the Turkish baths to make fun of the fat women with sagging stomachs and hanging breasts they saw there; scoffing at the female body, ridiculing men, laughing at love, are ways of disavowing sexuality: this laughter that defies adults is a way of overcoming one's own embarrassment; one plays with images and words to kill the dangerous magic of them: for example, I saw twelve year old students burst out laughing when they saw a Latin text with the word femur."
"As producers, they enjoy a correspondingly important social status."
"In the solitude of the new home, tied to a man who is more or less a stranger, no longer child but wife, and destined to become mother in turn, she feels numb; definitively removed from her mother's breast, lost in the middle of a world to which no aim calls her, abandoned in an icy present, she discovers the boredom and blandness of pure facticity."
"Can you find in your hearts to despoil the gentle, trusting creatures of their treasure, or do any thing to strip them of their native robe of virtue?"
"But then I thought of the child to come, and all such painful thoughts ceased Helpless, cruel hours of waiting in the night With what a price we pay for the glory of motherhood."
"The representation of the world as the world itself is the work of men; they describe it from a point of view that is their own and that they confound with the absolute truth."
"As a result of her pioneering efforts, Black women throughout the country became active in the anti lynching crusade."
"Mr. Marlowe is having a fit!"
"For the married woman, her salary usually only means extra income; for the 'woman who is helped,' it is the man's protection that seems inessential; but neither woman buys total independence through her own efforts."
"All children try to compensate for the separation of weaning by seductive and attention seeking behavior; the boy is forced to go beyond this stage, he is saved from his narcissism by turning his attention to his penis, whereas the girl is reinforced in this tendency to make herself object, which is common to all children."
"Even feminine demonstrations and initiatives were only worth something if a masculine decision positively prolonged them."
"The sensualist, indeed, has been the most dangerous of tyrants, and women have been duped by their lovers, as princes by their ministers, whilst dreaming that they reigned over them."
"In essence, woman is inconstant, just as water is fluid; and no human force can contradict a natural truth."
"See also Pollack, Children's Ideas on Sex Differences."
"The female understanding has often been spoken of with contempt, as arriving sooner at maturity than the male."
"But it is the Ionians who, in Miletus's stories, are the most spiteful: for example, the tale of the matron of Ephesus."
"Consenting to metamorphose oneself into a passive thing does not mean renouncing all claims to subjectivity: the woman thereby hopes to realize herself as the in itself; but she will then seek to grasp herself in her alterity."
"then women would be far less obsessed with their femininity; they would become more natural and simple and would easily rediscover themselves as women, which, after all, they are."
"If in addition the girl lets herself be kissed and petted, she will get her revenge in laughing outright at her partner or with friends."
"This argument is not new either: those who have an interest in perpetuating the present always shed tears for the marvelous past about to disappear without casting a smile on the young future."
"Ah, how good it is to come home to your wife when she believes in you and submits to your purpose that is beyond her"
"She would like to free herself from her mother's yoke; but she also has an ardent need for her protection."
"But it is still a difficult problem for them to reconcile their conjugal life with sexual satisfaction."
"Often the rivalry with her mother worsens: in particular, the older daughter is irritated if younger brothers and sisters are born; she feels her mother 'has done her time,' and it is up to her now to bear children, to reign."
"As Eleanor Flexner put it: (Stanton's) indignation and that of Miss Anthony knew no bounds."
"The uproar did not dissuade Douglass, nor did it achieve its goal of nipping the battle for women's rights in the bud."
"A man of goodwill feels it his duty to 'help' women because he is more favored than they are; he will let himself be caught up in scruples or pity, and he risks being the prey of 'clinging' or 'devouring' women because they are at a disadvantage."
"One striking instance of the folly of women must not be omitted."
", he is divine; if he refuses, he is suddenly stingy, mean, and cruel, he is a devilish being or bestial."
"In when the Southern leaders of the National Association of Colored Women drew up their grievances, the conditions ofdomestic service were first on their list."
"They want to confine her in a dilemma: either you agree or you don't; she has to agree in the name of the whole system of accepted principles:"
"The father who is blindly obeyed, is obeyed from sheer weakness, or from motives that degrade the human character."
"Thus, in Man's Fate, the overbearing Ferral insists on switching on the lamp Val rie wants to put out."
"true we have not had our hands manacled, but our hearts have been crushed."
"The narrow path of truth and virtue inclines neither to the right nor left, it is a straight forward business, and they who are earnestly pursuing their road, may bound over many decorous prejudices, without leaving modesty behind."
"White supremacy and male supremacy, which had always had an easy courtship, openly embraced and consolidated the affair."
"We know about the dispute that occurred in Catalonia from a woman complaining of the over assiduous efforts of her husband: not so much, in my opinion, that she was bothered by them (for I believe in miracles only in matters of faith)…"
"Nay, from experience, and reason, I should be lead to expect to meet with more modesty amongst men than women, simply because men exercise their understandings more than women."
"These wrestling like embraces terrorize her, she who has never wrestled."
"Glory to the strange adventure,' wrote Goethe in Faust, Part Two."
"There, writes Bachelard, is the essential reverie to which the housewife surrenders: the dream of active cleanliness,"
"Enrico well understands it is not he whom his mother beats so wildly; and waking from her delirium, she sobs with remorse and tenderness; he does not hold it against her, but he is no less disfigured by her blows."
"They were taught to please, and they only live to please."
"Two years earlier Sojourner Truth might possibly have opposed the position of Frederick Douglass."
"It will be thought you assume a superiority over the rest of the company"
"she loses herself again in that immediate fusion with life that weaning destroyed; and through this foreign enveloping gaze, she overcomes the separation that individualizes her."
"They are delighted to have them, but they are stigmas of decadence Tell all that to a man seeking pleasure and he does not care."
"When she receives the loved man, the woman is inhabited, visited like the Virgin by the Holy Spirit, like the believer by the wafer; this explains the obscene analogy between holy hymns and ribald songs: it is not that mystical love always has a sexual side; but the sexuality of the woman in love takes on a mystical tone. '"
"She was clean and tidy, fastidious even, but without a trace of that solitary, maniacal spirit that counts napkins, lumps of sugar, and full bottles."
"Some chickens fight in the barnyard for a pecking order."
"The next day, my mother was already up, he asked me if he could get into bed with me to play; I got up immediately without answering him"
"Ah, then I felt that mad desire which makes you feel that you will die if it is not satisfied."
"to voluntary sterilization' if they wanted him to deliver their babies."
", houses become the dwellings of spirits."
"He came towards, grabbed me from behind, bent me to him, and kissed me."
"If his happiness depends on being loved, he himself must love sincerely; nothing can withstand true passion."
"Self confidence is not lacking in Claudel: if he is shy, it is only the secret of God."
"Every argument has its opposite, and both are often misleading."
"The link is so tight between arousal and seduction that in all cases where erotic sensibility lies dormant, no desire to please is observed in the subject."
"I have sometimes compared the struggles of these poor children who ought never to have felt restraint, nor would, had they been always held in with an even hand, to the despairing plunges of a spirited filly, which I have seen breaking on a strand; its feet sinking deeper and deeper in the sand every time it endeavoured to throw its rider, till at last it sullenly submitted."
"But Gudrun is stubborn; cerebral, artistic, she fiercely envies men their independence and their potential for activity; she persists in keeping her individuality intact; she wants to live for herself; ironic and possessive, she will remain forever shut up in her subjectivity."
"And women, whom he flattered by a puerile attention to the whole sex, obtained in his reign that prince like distinction so fatal to reason and virtue."
"The campaign's spokeswomen insist, nonetheless, that they don't advocate the continued imprisonment of women within the isolated environment of their homes."
"Independence I have long considered as the grand blessing of life, the basis of every virtue; and independence I will ever secure by contracting my wants, though I were to live on a barren heath."
"This is how the attitude of the proletarian women has changed over the century; during the recent strikes in the mines of the North, for example, they showed as much passion and energy as men, demonstrating and fighting side by side."
"As they petitioned against slavery, women were compelled simultaneously to champion their own right to engage in political work."
"But inversely, because she owns nothing, woman is not raised to the dignity of a person; she herself is part of man's patrimony, first her father's and then her husband's."
"No she played the game"
"It is often emphasized that she reserves kissing on the lips, the expression of real tenderness, for her true love, and she makes no connection between amorous embraces and professional ones."
"Before the end of the nineteenth century pioneering Black clubwomen conducted one of the very first organized public protests against sexual abuse."
"It is so strange to be thinking such things now that I have a husband."
"inspiration, critic, writer's audience, she emulates the writer; she can often impose a type of sensitivity, an ethic that feeds men's hearts, which is how she intervenes in her own destiny: women's education is mainly a feminine conquest."
"However, some psychiatrists affirm that there is more than one adolescent girl who does not know that sexual organs have a use other than urinary."
"Other objects can also play this role."
"A stranger she preserves a stranger's seed, if no god interfere.'"
"This last figure seems closest to the truth."
"Calder, Lorca, and Valle Incl made it the theme of many plays."
"A similar story not linked to the crisis of menstruation but which shows the girl's anxiety about her insides is Nancy's:"
"The second bias contradicts the first, which does not exclude the fact that they often coexist: the permanence of the species is guaranteed by the female since the male principle has an explosive and fleeting existence."
"Since her return she has been frigid."
"And if he remembers the faces he has loved, he 'will discover at the same time in all these women's faces one face only: the last face loved."
"Do you rely on his wisdom, so conspicuous in his works, and in your own frame, and are you convinced, that he has ordered all things which do not come under the cognizance of your senses, in the same perfect harmony, to fulfil his designs?"
"I became their sister Marguerite I loved to represent myself as subjected to the whims of my brothers and totally at their mercy."
"It is nonetheless rare for feminine complicity to reach true friendship; women feel more spontaneous solidarity with each other than men do, but from within this solidarity they do not transcend toward each other: together they are turned toward the masculine world, whose values each hopes to monopolize for herself."
"This will did not spring from bronze itself."
"As the dictates of racism and chauvinism had shaped the 's policy toward thedomestic working class, they accepted without question the new feats of."
"If it be merely the refuge of weakness or wild fanaticism, and not a governing principle of conduct, drawn from self knowledge, and a rational opinion respecting the attributes of God, what can it be expected to produce?"
"But this fair assemblage is not to be brought together by chance; it is the reward of exertions met to support each other; for judgment can only be acquired by reflection, affection, by the discharge of duties, and humanity by the exercise of compassion to every living creature."
"Unless he is exceptionally lucky, the husband will necessarily appear as either clumsy or a libertine."
"Psychoanalysts have clearly noted the importance of the relationship a homosexual woman had earlier with her mother."
"She is used to a free flowing head of hair that falls like a silken skein; but this new growth under her arms, beneath her belly, metamorphoses her into an animal or alga."
"Verydominating or very carnal women grow cold toward him; it is then that some others like Colette begin to take an interest in him."
"The land can thus be considered as mystically belonging to women: their hold on the soil and its fruits is both religious and legal."
"He falls into the trap of blaming the victim for the savage punishment she was historically forced to endure."
"And whilst women are educated to rely on their husbands for judgment, this must ever be the consequence, for there is no improving an understanding by halves, nor can any being act wisely from imitation, because in every circumstance of life there is a kind of individuality, which requires an exertion of judgment to modify general rules."
"he is the embodiment of this adventurous, immense, difficult, and marvelous world; he is transcendence, he is God."
"De Reiffenberg, Dictionnaire de la conversation, 'Femmes et filles de folles vie' (Dictionary of Conversation, 'Women and Girls of the Low Life')."
"The crime of lynching is not likely to cease until the crime of ravishing and murdering women and children is less frequent than it has been of late."
"For, to exalt one attribute at the expense of another equally noble and necessary, bears the stamp of the warped reason of man, the homage of passion."
"Here there was to be found everything in the shape of his books, pamphlets, and clippings which she could gather bearing on her hero."
"on Bizard, Souvenirs d'un decin des prisons de Paris Memoirs of a Doctor of Paris Prisons)."
"Why do people hurry to noisy scenes and crowded circles?"
"Immigrant women compelled to accept household employment earned little more than their Black counterparts."
"I know not whether the allusions of a truly humane heart, whose zeal renders every thing easy, is not preferable to that rough and repulsing reason, which always finds in indifference for the public good, the first obstacle to whatever would promote it."
"Needless to say, most of the working women did not have inherently fulfilling jobs: they were waitresses, factory workers, typists, supermarket and department store clerks, etc."
"So here they were living in these rooms for eight or ten weeks and already, in spite of Juliette's vigilance, a dust ball had had the time to take form, to grow, crouching in a shadow like those gray beasts that frightened her when she was small."
"Parental affection is, perhaps, the blindest modification of perverse self love; for we have not, like the French two terms (L'amour propre, L'amour de soi meme) to distinguish the pursuit of a natural and reasonable desire, from the ignorant calculations of weakness."
"The female is a woman, insofar as she feels herself as such."
"The fake abandon of the masochistic woman creates new barriers that keep her from pleasure; and at the same time, she is taking vengeance against herself for this inability to experience pleasure."
"This idyllic tableau merits closer scrutiny."
"Access to a female body through force is within their ken."
"The city dweller seeks animality in woman; but for the young peasant doing his military service, the brothel embodies the magic of the city."
"She looks at herself too much to see anything; she understands in others only what she recognizes about them; whatever she cannot assimilate to her own case, to her own story, remains foreign to her."
"Existence has no fortuitous attributes, no content which does not contribute towards giving it its form; it does not give admittance to any pure fact because it is the process by which facts are drawn up.'"
"After nursing, she went to Paris, found a job as a nanny, and began to carouse at the age of twenty nine."
"When questions were raised about the absence of racially oppressed women in both the larger movement and in the abortion rights campaign, two explanations were commonly proposed in the discussions and literature of the period: women of color were overburdened by their people's fight against racism; and/or they had not yet become conscious of the centrality of sexism."
"on the contrary, it even implies it."
"Later, when it became evident that these conspiracies, plots and insurrections were fabrications that never materialized, the popular justification for lynching was modified."
"Yet they should know, that insulted reason alone can spread that reserve about the persons which renders human affections, for human affections have always some base alloy, as permanent as is consistent with the grand end of existence the attainment of virtue."
"No man would consent to being a woman, but all want there to be women. '"
"As Mother Bloor and her Communist party comrades concluded, the working class cannot assume its historical role as a revolutionary force if workers do not struggle relentlessly against the social poison of racism."
"Every individual is in this respect a world in itself."
"In a study published in by the Southern Commission on the Study of Lynching, it was revealed that between and only one sixth of the mob victims were actually accused of rape: percent were charged with murder, percent with felonious assault, percent of theft, percent of insulting a white person and percent were accused of miscellaneous charges the majority of which were astoundingly trivial."
"Woman, however, a slave in every situation to prejudice seldom exerts enlightened maternal affection; for she either neglects her children, or spoils them by improper indulgence."
"Thus Milton describes our first frail mother; though when he tells us that women are formed for softness and sweet attractive grace, I cannot comprehend his meaning, unless, in the true Mahometan strain, he meant to deprive us of souls, and insinuate that we were beings only designed by sweet attractive grace, and docile blind obedience, to gratify the senses of man when he can no longer soar on the wing of contemplation."
", they care very little what people think of them."
"My imagination darts forward with benevolent fervour to greet these amiable and respectable groups, in spite of the sneering of cold hearts, who are at liberty to utter, with frigid self importance,"
"Women's magazines amply advise the housewife on the art of maintaining her sexual attraction while doing the dishes, of remaining elegant throughout pregnancy, of reconciling flirtation, motherhood, and economy; but if she conscientiously follows their advice, she will soon be overwhelmed and disfigured by care; it is very difficult to remain desirable with chapped hands and a body deformed by pregnancies; this is why a woman in love often feels resentment of the children who ruin her seduction and deprive her of her husband's caresses; if she is, by contrast, deeply maternal, she is jealous of the man who also claims the children as his."
"Although Black men in the could not claim a spotless record as advocates of women's equality, such utterances as Downing's did not warrant the conclusion that Black men in general would be more 'despotic' toward women than their white male counterparts."
"This feature is constant from insects to higher animals."
"the 'clay in his hands' that passively lets itself be worked and shaped, resistant while yielding, permitting masculine activity to go on."
", too, seemed to be talkative enough when he was with others She tried to remember what they used to talk about before they were married, when they were engaged."
"September I avidly search his diaries for any reference to love, and am so tormented by jealously that I can no longer see anything clearly."
"As the Seneca Falls Convention was being planned, Elizabeth Cady Stanton proposed a resolution which appeared too radical even to her co conventioner Lucretia Mott."
"Perhaps, however, you devoutly believe in the devil, and imagine, to shift the question, that he may assist his votaries?"
"So forcibly does this truth strike me, that I would rest the whole tendency of my reasoning upon it; for whatever tends to incapacitate the maternal character, takes woman out of her sphere."
"No doubt they did mean white men quite literally, for Prudence Crandall had not only violated their code of racial segregation, she had also defied the traditional attitudes concerning the conduct of a white lady."
"In the most trifling dangers they cling to their support, with parasitical tenacity, piteously demanding succour; and their protector extends his arm, or lifts up his voice, to guard the lovely trembler from what?"
"She has eating spells; sometimes she eats too much to keep herself from fainting; she is also afraid when she feels closed in."
"Some follicles swell up without reaching maturity; the girl's growth is analogous to the boy's: at the same age she is often bigger and heavier than he."
"The more importance woman gives these malaises and the more she coddles herself, the more intense they are."
"But for the great majority of them, their art, their occupations are only a means; they are not involved in real projects."
"Good is not; the world is not harmony, and no individual has a necessary place in it."
"I do not forget the starts of activity which sensibility produces; but as these flights of feeling only increase the evil, they are not to be confounded with the slow, orderly walk of reason."
"No one broached the subject, neither my mother nor my schoolteacher; no book treated the subject fully."
"Can she believe that she was only made to submit to man her equal; a being, who, like her, was sent into the world to acquire virtue?"
"Often woman is but a deceptive giver of illusions: I am the promise that cannot be kept, and my grace consists of that very thing."
"Objections to this system always imply respect for sexual taboos; but it is useless to try to inhibit curiosity and pleasure in children; this only results in creating repression, obsessions, and neuroses; exalted sentimentality, homosexual fervor, and the platonic passions of adolescent girls along with the whole procession of nonsense and dissipation are far more harmful than a few childish games and actual experiences."
"I was tremendously jealous, for I had always been the only child in the family."
"Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and their colleagues on the paper made important contributions to the cause of working women, they never really accepted the principle of trade unionism."
"This idea is forcefully expressed in the Laws of Manu: 'Whatever be the qualities of the man with whom a woman is united according to the law, such qualities even she assumes, like a river united with the ocean, and she is admitted after death to the same celestial paradise.'"
"The Thousand and One Nights looks on her as a source of creamy delights much like fruits, jams, rich desserts, and perfumed oils."
"the senses modulate for me the language of persuasive reason, till I rouse my sex from the flowery bed, on which they supinely sleep life away!"
"An ideological consequence of industrial capitalism was the shaping of a more rigorous notion of female inferiority."
"These customs were particularly brutal in superstitious and mystical Spain, sensual and terrorized by the flesh."
"Assuming that the theory underlying the demand for wages is hopelessly flawed, might it not be nonetheless politically desirable to insist that housewives be paid."
"To say that woman was the Other is to say that a relationship of reciprocity between the sexes did not exist: whether Earth, Mother, or Goddess, she was never a peer for man; her power asserted itself beyond human rule: she was thus outside of this rule."
"It is part of my strengths, my luck."
"The world is first present to the newborn only in the form of immanent sensations; he is still immersed within the Whole as he was when he was living in the darkness of a womb; whether raised on the breast or on a bottle, he is invested with the warmth of maternal flesh."
"Here is one of the painful paradoxes of love: captive, the god sheds his divinity."
"In any case, she has a long, empty afternoon in front of her."
"Sophia Tolstoy wrote about one year after her wedding day:"
"We do not marry for ourselves, whatever we say; we marry just as much or more for our posterity, for our family."
"She spends her whole life as a minor; she is under the control of her guardian: either her father, or her husband, or her husband's heir or, by default, the state, represented by public officials; here are her masters, and they use her like merchandise, the guardian's control extending over both her person and her property; the guardian can transmit her rights as he wishes: the father gives his daughter up for adoption or in marriage; the husband can repudiate his wife and hand her over to another husband."
"I already loved her a lot in my first year, but now it is real love."
"This is the torture of impossible love; woman wants to have man all to herself, but she demands that he go beyond all the givens he could possibly possess; one does not have a freedom; she wants to lock up here an existent who is, in Heidegger's words, a 'being from afar,' she knows full well that this effort is futile. '"
"that I should not let a young person read her works, unless I could afterwards converse on the subjects, and point out the contradictions."
"Thus when virtue or honour make it proper to check a passion, the burden is thrown on the weaker shoulders, contrary to reason and true modesty, which, at least, should render the self denial mutual, to say nothing of the generosity of bravery, supposed to be a manly virtue."
"Let me now, as from an eminence, survey the world stripped of all its false delusive charms."
"And the family weighs her down; all weight is on her.'"
"In marrying, the woman receives a piece of the world as property; legal guaranties protect her from man's caprices; but she becomes his vassal."
"On this account also, I object to many females being shut up together in nurseries, schools, or convents."
"In both Memphis and New Orleans, Black people and some white radicals had been killed and wounded."
"At the age of ten or eleven; nay, often much sooner, girls began to coquet, and talked, unreproved, of establishing themselves in the world by marriage."
"When the habits of weak people are consolidated by time, a reformation is barely possible; and actually makes the beings miserable who have not sufficient mind to be amused by innocent pleasure; like the tradesman who retires from the hurry of business, nature presents to them only a universal blank; and the restless thoughts prey on the damped spirits."
"How would one explain the pleasure of a caress or a kiss to a dispassionate child?"
"Modesty, is the graceful calm virtue of maturity; bashfulness, the charm of vivacious youth.)"
"Today there are 'a million children in danger,' says the newspaper Ce Soir; and France Soir writes: 'Five hundred thousand children are reported to be in physical or moral danger.'"
"The reliance on rape as an instrument of white supremacist terror predates by several centuries the institution of lynching."
"Soul and Idea, woman is also the mediator between them: she is the Grace that leads the Christian to God, she is Beatrice guiding Dante to the beyond, Laura beckoning Petrarch to the highest peaks of poetry."
"So notorious is this fact, that the bare mentioning of it must bring before people, who at all mix in the world, the idea of a number of swaggering apes of men whose understandings are narrowed by being brought into the society of men when they ought to have been spinning a top or twirling a hoop."
"She did what she wanted with her dolls; when she helped care for her sister's or a friend's baby, it was without responsibility."
"As long as household workers stand in the shadow of the housewife, they will continue to receive wages which are more closely related to a housewife's 'allowance' than to a worker's paycheck."
"She does not really understand the meaning of these adventures."
"In a narrow smoky kitchen, I cooked some miserable meals."
"This is the 'great historical defeat of the female sex.'"
"Surely it would have been wiser to have advised women to improve themselves till they rose above the fumes of vanity; and then to let the public opinion come round for where are rules of accommodation to stop?"
"He bends to power; he adores a dark cloud, which may open a bright prospect to him, or burst in angry, lawless fury on his devoted head, he knows not why."
"Her shortcomings make her irritating: but her unique virtues sometimes make her astonishing."
"Their worst enemies are the clergy."
"Man experiences his abandonment in anguish."
"This indestructible love can only be unique."
"Many women prostitute themselves or 'get help' in order to keep themselves well dressed; it is their clothes that determine their need for money."
"A bourgeois writer cited by Bebel summarizes this ideal in all seriousness as follows: 'Man wants not only someone whose heart beats for him, but whose hand wipes his brow, who radiates peace, order, and tranquillity, a silent control over himself and those things he finds when he comes home every day; he wants someone who can spread over everything the indescribable perfume of woman who is the vivifying warmth of home life.'"
"A practicing Quaker minister, Lucretia Mott undoubtedly astounded the all male audience, for in those days women never spoke out at public gatherings."
"The man who loves danger and play is not displeased to see woman change into an Amazon as long as he keeps the hope of subjugating her: what he demands in his heart of hearts is that this struggle remain a game for him, while for woman it involves her very destiny: therein lies the true victory for man, liberator, or conqueror that woman freely recognize him as her destiny."
"In one respect, however, the majority of both sexes resemble, and equally show a want of taste and modesty."
"He prefers not to question himself; these questions even seem shocking to him."
"A contemporary Black writer, Calvin Hernton, unfortunately succumbs to similar falsehood about Black women."
"On the other hand, the aim for woman is uncertain in the beginning and more psychic than physiological; she desires arousal and sexual pleasure in general, but her body does not project any clear conclusion of the love act: and thus for her coitus is never fully completed: it does not include any finality."
"This was the basis for his insistence that the struggle for Black suffrage ought to take strategic priority, at that particular historical moment, over the effort to achieve the vote for women."
"Inevitably, when men have long been trained to violence and murder, the habit projects itself onto civil life, after peace, and there is crime and disorder and social upheaval."
"It is for the man and for the woman."
"If our souls were not so brutally assailed, they would continue to sleep, yet here they leap up"
"With respect to marriage, though after one and twenty a parent seems to have no right to withhold his consent on any account; yet twenty years of solicitude call for a return, and the son ought, at least, to promise not to marry for two or three years, should the object of his choice not entirely meet with the approbation of his first friend."
"By contrast, an individual existence takes shape in the male."
"The machine makes this upheaval possible because the difference in physical force between male and female workers is canceled out in a great number of cases."
"Yet, independent of these observations, I believe, that the human form must have been far more beautiful than it is at present, because extreme indolence, barbarous ligatures, and many causes, which forcibly act on it, in our luxurious state of society, did not retard its expansion, or render it deformed."
"Forty years later the young white teacher Prudence Crandall steadfastly defended Black girls' right to attend her Canterbury, Connecticut, school."
"and there is nothing left to strive for Everything seems stupid now"
"joy startled, I see a grave face that, tender and worshipful, inclines toward me, and, amid manifold entangled locks, reveals the youthful loveliness of the Mother More heavenly than those glittering stars we hold the eternal eyes which the Night hath opened within us."
"when a girl climbs trees, it is, according to him, to be the equal of boys: he does not imagine that she likes to climb trees; for the mother, the child is anything but a 'penis substitute'; painting, writing, and engaging in politics are not only 'good sublimations': they are ends desired in themselves."
"Women often evoke their images when engaged in solitary pleasures, or they call up such fantasies in conjugal lovemaking; these images also often revive some childhood memory in the figure of a grandfather, a brother, a teacher, and so on."
"Some biologists have thus concluded that even in species capable of perpetuating themselves unilaterally, the renewal of genetic diversity through mixing of parental chromosomes would benefit the line's rejuvenation and vigor; in this view, then, in the more complex forms of life, sexuality is an indispensable function; only elementary organisms could multiply without sexes, and even so they would exhaust their vitality."
"But nothing of this kind could occur in an elementary day school, where boys and girls, the rich and poor, should meet together."
"Teams of trained and well paid workers, moving from dwelling to dwelling, engineering technologically advanced cleaning machinery, could swiftly and efficiently accomplish what"
"This means that it is not enough for the young girl to let it happen; if she is docile, languid, or removed, she satisfies neither her partner nor herself."
"Very often, she has envisaged, from the start, a homosexual adventure just as a transition, an initiation, a temporary situation; she acts out jealousy, anger, pride, joy, and pain with the more or less admitted idea that she is imitating, without great risk, the adventures of which she dreams but that she does not yet dare, nor has had the occasion, to live."
"During the first great wave of lynchings, propaganda urging the defense of white womanhood from Black men's irrepressible rape instincts was conspicuous for its absence."
"I was spoiled, my fianc admired me, all this was new for me our kisses (my fianc had never attempted any other caresses) had aroused me to such a point that I could not wait for the wedding day The morning of the wedding I was in such a state of excitation that my camisole was soaking with sweat:"
"Most philosophies have taken sexual differentiation for granted without attempting to explain it."
"This is one of the reasons why women are so secretive on this subject."
"Why were self imposed abortions and reluctant acts of infanticide such common occurrences during slavery?"
"Many a traveler would ask woman for the key to the countries he visits: when he holds an Italian or Spanish woman in his arms, he feels he possesses the fragrant essence of Italy or Spain. '"
"Wisdom in discourse with her Loses discountenanc'd, and like folly shows; Authority and reason on her wait."
"Wells by the pro lynching president of the Missouri Press Association, the conference delegates protested that 'insult to Negro womanhood' and sent out '… to the country a unanimous endorsement of the course (Wells) had pursued in (her) agitation against lynching.'"
"Katherine Mansfield (in 'Prelude') has also described, in the character of Beryl, a case in which narcissism and the romantic desire for a woman's destiny are closely intermingled:"
"She did not see anything so terrible in it"
"The principal who issued the order was an abolitionist woman!"
"What man thus cherishes and detests first in woman, lover as well as mother, is the fixed image of her animal destiny, the life essential to her existence, but that condemns her to finitude and death."
"Jung, 'Pyschic Conflicts of a Child.'."
"Thus equal loves are possible, such as the one Malraux describes between Kyo and"
"In Conversations in Sicily, Vittorini recounts, with quiet amazement, having discovered the naked body of woman at the age of seven."
"Time after time they have been victims of extortion on the job, compelled to choose between sexual submission and absolute poverty for themselves and their families."
"But even if her experience allows her to denounce mystifications and lies, it is not enough to reveal the truth to her."
"but you would have maintained and even increased their esteem, so far as to have secured every degree of influence that could conduce to their virtue, or your mutual satisfaction; and your house might at this day have been the abode ofdomestic bliss."
"And this is why woman embodies no set concept; through her the passage from hope to failure, hatred to love, good to bad, bad to good takes place ceaselessly."
"She is a parasite of the rich bourgeoisie, and she adheres to its ideas"
"Literature has popularized the character of the fancy man."
"However, narcissism does not always lead to homosexuality either, as Marie Bashkirtseff's example shows; there is not the slightest trace of affection for women in her writings; intellectual rather than sensual, extremely vain, she dreams from childhood of being validated by man:"
"I achieved a sense of fruitfulness and activity vicariously."
"Can he not be aware that women's sensuality is no less tormented than men's?"
"Indeed, if women remained forever burdened by incessant childbirths and frequent miscarriages, they would hardly be able to exercise the political rights they might win."
"Marie Th se complained in particular that the French have an insatiable imagination."
"; this is what makes them likely to take on numerous meanings."
"And so I have often reassured my friends who apologized for the many guests they feared I would be importuned by with this sincere admission: I don't like to play to empty seats."
"But those who are intelligent and ambitious create avenues for action for themselves."
"At this stage, man no longer limits himself to gathering the products of the earth: but he does not yet understand his power; he hesitates between technical skill and magic; he feels passive, dependent on Nature that doles out existence and death by chance."
"No, they are the men of fancy, the favourites of the sex, who outwardly respect, and inwardly despise the weak creatures whom they thus sport with."
"It is worth noting that out of one thousand statues in Paris (not counting the queens that compose the corbel of the Luxembourg and fulfill a purely architectural role)"
"On folly, on ignorance, say ye"
"For what purpose were the passions implanted?"
"But can the crude fruit of casual observation, never brought to the test of judgment, formed by comparing speculation and experience, deserve such a distinction?"
"And if he is not, how can his passion be irresistible enough to bring about a reciprocal passion?"
"As Carolyn Asbaugh's recent biograp confirms, her journalistic and agitational defense of the working class as a whole spanned a period of more than sixty years."
"Everyone agrees there are females in the human species; today, as in the past, they make up about half of humanity; and yet we are told that 'femininity is in jeopardy'; we are urged, 'Be women, stay women, become women.'"
"The bedouin woman works hard, she plows and carries burdens: this is how she sets up a reciprocal bond with her husband; she moves around freely, her face uncovered."
"The day when it will be possible for the woman to love in her strength and not in her weakness, not to escape from herself but to find herself, not out of resignation but to affirm herself, love will become for her as for man the source of life and not a mortal danger."
"It is also in part because such brutal means are repugnant to them: they almost never use knives or firearms."
"If he cannot 'get along without her,' she considers herself the foundation of his precious existence, and she derives her own worth from that."
"percent of attempted rape."
"Because she seized every available opportunity to break free from the plantation, she was eventually held prisoner in a heavy iron collar and in case she managed to break the collar, a front tooth was pulled as an identification mark."
"The dicterions were considered so necessary that they were recognized as inviolable places of asylum."
"The phallus is a column of blood, that fills the valley of blood of a woman."
"The cult of thedomestic gods is superimposed on the constitution of private property, and the function of heirs is both economic and mystical."
"Dalla Costa was not the first theorist to propose such an analysis of women's oppression."
"Because she does nothing, she avidly seeks herself in what she has."
"She will turn to a woman less foreign and less fearsome than the male, but one who will possess male prestige: a woman who has a profession, who earns her living, who has a certain social base, will easily be as fascinating as a man: we know how many 'flames' are lit in schoolgirls' hearts for professors and tutors."
"Voltaire denounces the injustice of their lot."
"Inferior and pitiful, that is not enough."
"The less tabooed it is, the smoother the initiation, and"
"In the eighteenth century, woman's freedom and independence continue to grow."
"Once again, it is the ideal of the 'real woman' that Lawrence offers us, that is, of the woman who unhesitatingly assents to defining herself as the Other."
"The husband respects his wife too much to be interested in the metamorphoses of her psychological life: that would mean recognizing in her a secret autonomy that could prove to be bothersome, dangerous; does she really get pleasure in bed?"
"Number was the wife of a market porter; she had had ten children in two marriages, of which only three were still living, and she had seven miscarriages, five of which were induced; she regularly used the 'coat hanger' technique that she complaisantly displayed, as well as pills whose names she shared with her companions."
"What I will try to describe is how woman is taught to assume her condition, how she experiences this"
"If they did not yet know how to present their own grievances collectively, at least they could plead the cause of a people who were also oppressed."
"These dangerous paths that she is compelled to follow are ones she herself has not traced: it is understandable that she does not take them enthusiastically."
"Thus, there is no trace of the battle of the sexes."
"This is why the little girl, even more so than her brothers, is preoccupied with sexual mysteries; of course boys are interested as well, just as passionately; but in their future, their role of husband and father is not what concerns them the most; marriage and motherhood put in question the little girl's whole destiny; and as soon as she begins to perceive their secrets, her body seems odiously threatened to her."
"Mantras replayed in Marguerite's head: take care of the wooden floors for the care of brass, use she was in charge of the care of two ordinary beings for the rest of their days."
"She thought a distinguishing taste and puny appetite the height of all human perfection, and acted accordingly."
"In women are allowed to vote for the Commercial Court, to vote and be eligible for the National Council on Labor and Employment, to be admitted to the National Council for Public Health Services, and the Ecole des Beaux Arts."
"My daughter, my beloved, love me because you are very much loved by me; much more than you could love me."
"is undoubtedly a most natural consequence."
"For fervent Gaullists, de Gaulle is the king sweeper; they imagine him, dust mops and rags in hand, scrubbing and polishing to make a 'clean' France."
"If we mean, in short, to live in the world to grow wiser and better, and not merely to enjoy the good things of life, we must attain a knowledge of others at the same time that we become acquainted with ourselves knowledge"
"Some countries have officially adopted specific methods of birth control; in Catholic countries, it takes place clandestinely: either man practices coitus interruptus, or woman rids her body of the sperm after the sexual act."
"Among unequals what society Can sort, what harmony or delight?"
"She covets not only sensual treasures but sometimes also sentimental values and ideals."
"And if she succeeds in preserving her self respect, she will feel the humiliation of her flesh much less vividly: the girl who opens paths of transcendence in sports, social, intellectual, and mystical activities will not see a mutilation in her specificity, and she will overcome it easily."
"Nor do the children bring entertainment or peace; during the meal and the evening there is a vague bad mood; reading, listening to the radio, chatting idly, each one under the cover of intimacy, will remain alone."
"The man can easily engage in casual sex that at least calms his physical needs and is good for his morale."
"In France, the woman who seems to be the most virile and independent is perhaps Ninon de Lenclos."
"have sufficient foresight or resolution, to endure a small evil at the moment, to avoid a greater hereafter."
"There is no use pretending it doesn't exist."
"But the fact is, she knows all the fault lines of the masculine system and she hastens to denounce them."
"This jewel is a souvenir; that one is a symbol."
"Ernest would read industriously, and along toward the middle of the paper, he would start yawning aloud."
"It is of great importance to observe, that the character of every man is, in some degree, formed by his profession."
"Judith, Charlotte Corday, and Vera Zasulich assassinate; the Frondeuses conspire; during the Revolution and the Commune, women fight alongside men against the established order;"
"Woman' was the test, but not every woman seemed to qualify."
"The scene normally took place on a park bench, in the evening."
"He exploits it, but it crushes him; he is born from and he dies in it; it is the source of his being and the kingdom he bends to his will; it is a material envelope in which the soul is held prisoner, and it is the supreme reality; it is contingency and Idea, finitude and totality; it is that which opposes Spirit and himself."
"They become all the weightier the more woman defies man."
"She tests her situation's ambiguity on a daily basis: beyond sterile protest, she can have the courage to throw into question established optimism, preconceived values, and hypocritical and reassuring morality."
"The school pastor, having learned the story from a letter gone astray, gave her a long sermon, and she left the young man; she was called a black sheep:"
"I speak collectively, for I know how many ornaments to human nature have been enrolled amongst sectaries; yet, I assert, that the same narrow prejudice for their sect, which women have for their families, prevailed in the dissenting part of the community, however worthy in other respects; and also that the same timid prudence, or headstrong efforts, often disgraced the exertions of both."
"As for the abortion rights campaign itself, how could women of color fail to grasp its urgency?"
"Because she is on the margins of a hypocritically moral world, a sort of pariah, the 'lost girl' can be regarded as the challenger of all official virtues; her indignity relates her to authentic saints; for the oppressed shall be exalted; Christ looked upon Mary Magdalene with favor; sin opens the gates of heaven more easily than hypocritical virtue."
"the less sexually satisfied she is; to console herself for this disappointment that she refuses at first to admit"
"Men represented this triumph as the outcome of a violent struggle."
"While we are in this condition, it is not for us to go passing resolutions against railroad corporations or anybody else."
"When the woman marries, she passes 'into the hands' of her husband; there are three types of marriage: the confarreatio, where the spouses offer a spelt cake to the Capitoline Jupiter in the presence of the flamen dialis; the coemptio, a fictitious sale in which the plebeian father 'mancipated' his daughter to her husband; and the usus, the result of a cohabitation of one year; all three were with manu, meaning that the male spouse replaces the father or his male relatives; his wife is considered one of his daughters, and he thenceforth has complete power over her person and her property."
"Find me a powerful husband because I need to defend my land'; many epics show the king or lord dealing tyrannically with girls and widows."
", I went to study sewing then as I earned very little, the fights with my stepfather began I had to be placed as a maid at Mme."
"Gardening, experimental philosophy, and literature, would afford them subjects to think of, and matter for conversation, that in some degree would exercise their understandings."
"The pattern of institutionalized sexual abuse of Black women became so powerful that it managed to survive the abolition of slavery."
"Yet with all this, the fact remains that on the job, women can unite with their sisters and indeed with their brothers in order to challenge the capitalists at the point of production."
"Like the 'passage' into puberty, sexual initiation, and marriage, motherhood generates morose disappointment for subjects who are waiting for an external event to renew and justify their lives."
"; he feels oppressed: he is; but in fact, it is the masculine code, the society developed by males and in their interest, that has defined the feminine condition in a form that is now for both sexes a source of distress."
"In truth, all human existence is transcendence and immanence at the same time; to go beyond itself, it must maintain itself; to thrust itself toward the future, it must integrate the past into itself; and while relating to others, it must confirm itself in itself."
"Freud is forced to invent strange fictions to reunite them."
"These women try to influence men and to play a personal role."
"His kiss wasn't superficial besides, since he stuck his tongue into my mouth."
"As for other women, it often happens that the hetaera loves them sensually; as an enemy of men who impose theirdomination on her, she will find sensual relaxation as well as revenge in the arms of a woman friend: so it was with Nana and her dear Satin."
"This is what will happen in cases where the adolescent girl feels unattractive as a woman: anatomical configurations become particularly important when this happens; if she is, or believes she is, ugly or has a bad figure, woman rejects a feminine destiny for which she feels ill adapted; but it would be wrong to say that she acquires a mannish attitude to compensate for a lack of femininity: rather, the opportunities offered to the adolescent girl in exchange for the masculine advantages she is asked to sacrifice seem too meager to her."
"Her passive eroticism reveals her desire not as will and aggression but as an attraction similar to that which makes the dowser's pendulum quiver; the mere presence of her flesh makes the male sex swell and rise; why should hidden water not make the dowser's wand jump?"
"Mrs. Jones,' said I, 'how many hours a day does your maid stand upon her feet?' '"
"Accepting a female child is an act of generosity on the father's part; the woman enters such societies only through a kind of grace bestowed on her, and not legitimately like males."
"We should wish, though vainly, to fly from his presence when fear absorbed love, and darkness involved all his counsels."
"Here are some typical passages: The mother in black, mauve, violet robber of nights that's the sorceress whose hidden industry brings you into the world, the one who rocks you, coddles you, coffins you, when she doesn't abandon her curled up body one last little toy into your hands, that lay it nicely into the coffin"
"as this picture appears, it is the portrait of an accomplished woman, according to the received opinion of female excellence, separated by specious reasoners from human excellence."
"The hand that takes and that touches has an even more imperious presence than do eyes: it is more frightening."
"While still a little girl, I wanted to draw men's attention, trouble them, be saved by them, die in their arms,'"
"This savage severity fades as superstitions diminish and fear dissipates."
"A housewife has a more intimate relationship with her maid than a man unless he is homosexual has with his valet or chauffeur; they tell each other secrets, and sometimes they are accomplices; but there are also hostile rivalries between them, because while freeing herself from the actual work, the mistress of the house wants to assume the responsibility and credit for the work she assigns; she wants to think of herself as irreplaceable, indispensable. '"
"The joy that is a surge of freedom is reserved for the man; what the woman knows is an impression of smiling plenitude."
"Ageing side by side lived."
"Everyone knows the cause of war it is capitalism."
"In any case, the woman in love has to save her contingent existence by uniting with the Whole incarnated in a sovereign Person."
"Unmarried, the daughter remains under the father's guardianship; if he does not marry her off, he generally sends her to a convent."
"thou that spreadest the ethereal cloud that surrounding love heightens every beauty, it half shades, breathing those coy sweets that steal into the heart, and charm"
"He is pleased to remain the sovereign subject, the absolute superior, the essential being; he refuses to consider his companion concretely as an equal; she responds to his defiance by an aggressive attitude."
"For in treating of morals, particularly when women are alluded to, writers have too often considered virtue in a very limited sense, and made the foundation of it worldly utility; nay, a still more fragile base has been given to this stupendous fabric, and the wayward fluctuating feelings of men have been made the standard of virtue."
"Man feminizes the ideal that he posits before him as the essential Other, because woman is the tangible figure of alterity; this is why almost all the allegories in language and in iconography are women."
"Treasure, prey, game, and risk, muse, guide, judge, mediator, mirror, the woman is the Other in which the subject surpasses himself without being limited, who opposes him without negating him; she is the Other who lets herself be annexed to him without ceasing to be the Other."
"In trying to go further, the woman is afraid of failing miserably."
"To glorify the mother is to accept birth, life, and death in both their animal and their social forms and to proclaim the harmony of nature and society."
"One finds in Breton the same esoteric naturalism as in the Gnostics who saw in Sophia the principle of redemption and even of creation, as in Dante choosing Beatrice for guide, or Petrarch illuminated by Laura's love."
"The respect women grant to heroes and to the masculine world's laws stems from their powerlessness and ignorance; they acknowledge these laws not through judgment but through an act of faith: faith draws its fanatical power from the fact that it is not knowledge: it is blind, passionate, stubborn, and stupid; what it puts forward is done unconditionally, against reason, against history, against all refutation."
"but when the gloss of novelty is worn off, and pleasure palls upon the sense, lasciviousness becomes barefaced, and enjoyment only the desperate effort of weakness flying from reflection as from a legion of devils."
"Such is also Monique, whose profile is drawn by Marcel Arland, who confuses excitement with sin, for whom love is a shameful abdication, whose blood is hot but who detests this ardor and who, while bridling, submits to it."
"It is not the same thing for women' retains a certain truth."
", she allows her gaze to wander from the blank canvas to her mirror; but the bouquet of flowers, the bowl of apples, do not appear on their own on the canvas."
"The first feminine work charter, dated November bans night work and limits the workday in factories; it leaves the door open for all kinds of fraud."
"There are virgin cities and prostitute cities such as Babel and Tyre."
"If the 'question of women' is so trivial, it is because masculine arrogance turned it into a 'quarrel'; when people quarrel, they no longer reason"
"Having brilliantly presented the idea at the beginning of The Physiology of Marriage that this loveless institution forcibly leads the wife to adultery, Balzac exhorts husbands to rein in wives to total subjugation if they want to avoid the ridicule of dishonor."
"Lucy Parsons immediately initiated a militant campaign to free the Haymarket Defendants."
"This idea is indeed highly useful from a therapeutic point of view; but it has reached a disturbing extent in psychoanalysis in general."
"She is the carnal embodiment of all moral values and their opposites, from good to bad; she is the stuff of action and its obstacle, man's grasp on the world and his failure; as such she is the source of all man's reflection on his existence and all expression he can give of it; however, she works to divert him from himself, to make him sink into silence and death."
"Some women just randomly put together a few sparse and mismatched traits; others systematically create a figure whose role they consistently play: it has already been said that women have trouble differentiating this game from the truth."
"I pretended to, I am really not quite sure which I think sometimes the one and sometimes the other You and papa have committed a great sin against me."
"It must be noted that the American citizen who deeply confounds the average European is nonetheless not considered 'mysterious': one more modestly claims not to understand him; likewise, woman does not always 'understand' man, but there is no masculine mystery; the fact is that rich America and the male are on the side of the Master, and Mystery belongs to the slave."
"She still assures the fertility of the fields for the bedouins and the Iroquois; in ancient Greece, she heard subterranean voices; she understood the language of the wind and the trees: she was the Pythia, Sibyl, and prophetess."
"Your head Already reflects other skies."
"The Wilmington Massacre was the most murderous of an entire series of organized mob attacks on Black people during that period."
"A false light distorted, for a short time, its shadow reputation; but it seldom fails to become just when the cloud is dispersed that produced the mistake in vision."
"Women are always to to be this and that yet virtue might apostrophize them, in the words of Hamlet"
"In our room, there was already a little disappointment when my husband asked me if he should move away."
"Cursed be the knight who takes counsel from a lady on when to joust.'"
"There is one notable exception: Proudhon."
"Mme d'Agoult writes to Liszt: 'I love you sometimes stupidly, and at such times I do not understand that I could not, would not be able to, and should not be for you the same absorbing thought as you are for me.'"
"Some Reflections on Marriage' in Stages on Life's Way. ."
"Without this freedom you cannot become a true artist."
"Her illness is her vengeance on the man."
"But it is clear that none of these traits manifests a perverted essence or perverted original will; they reflect a situation. '"
"When Black and Latina women resort to abortions in such large numbers, the stories they tell are not so much about their desire to be free of their pregnancy, but rather about the miserable social conditions which dissuade them from bringing new lives into the world."
"They were not so unanimous, however, in their response to Susan."
"Mme Proudhon's letters are one long lament."
"One area they have most lovingly explored is Nature; for the girl or the woman who has not completely abdicated, nature represents what woman represents for man: herself and her negation, a kingdom and a place of exile; she is all in the guise of the other."
"Does such a fleeting miracle and one so rare justify perpetuating a situation that is so damaging for both sexes?"
"In all these practices they are only imitating the Redeemer, who saved flesh by the abasement of his own flesh: women show their sensitivity to this great mystery in a much more concrete way than males."
"In some cases, she remains attached to her first lover and continues to live with him; she takes an 'honest' job; when the lover abandons her, another consoles her; since she no longer belongs to one man, she decides she can give herself to all; sometimes it is the lover the first, the second who suggests this means of earning money."
"Man knows that to satisfy his desires, to perpetuate his existence, woman is indispensable to him; he has to integrate her in society: as long as she submits to the order established by males, she is cleansed of her original stain."
"A woman alone always seems a little unusual; it is not true that men respect women: they respect each other through their women wives, mistresses, 'kept' women; when masculine protection no longer extends over her, woman is disarmed before a superior caste that is aggressive, sneering, or hostile."
"In these plays that are all the more significant for their ambition, two imperious males sacrifice women guilty of simply being human beings to their hollow pride; they desire love and earthly happiness:"
"Here again, ennui accompanies the confinement of woman in immanence."
"In particular, in the guise of different psychasthenic obsessions, she feels the giddiness of her empty freedom; she develops, for example, fantasies of prostitution we have already seen in young girls."
"The difference stems from the overall erotic situation of man and woman as defined by tradition and today's society."
"Fate, however, breaks this tie."
"He would be liberated with their liberation."
"Passions are spurs to action, and open the mind; but they sink into mere appetites, become a personal momentary gratification, when the object is gained, and the satisfied mind rests in enjoyment."
"Considering the attributes of God, I believe, that whatever punishment may follow, will tend, like the anguish of disease, to show the malignity of vice, for the purpose of reformation."
"And it is according to these common laws that human behaviour ought to be regulated."
"Two of them were killed, but the rest, according to all indications, made their way to the North."
"Femininity is a kind of 'prolonged childhood' that sets women apart from the 'ideal type of the race.'"
"But if they are not incorporated into the whole of human reality, sexuality and technology of themselves will fail to explain anything."
"The girl's attitude is defined essentially by the fact that in the agonizing shadows of bad faith, she refuses the world and her own destiny at the same time as she accepts them."
"It was basically a survival measure a means of guaranteeing the survival of the masses of his people."
"Molly was very interested in her pregnancy: she had a difficult delivery and forceps were necessary"
"But the real meaning of the almost lily white complexion of the abortion rights campaign was not to be found in an ostensibly myopic or underdeveloped consciousness among women of color."
"Why did so many women join the anti slavery movement?"
"She discovers that her husband, her milieu, and her occupations were not worthy of her; she feels misunderstood."
"The book, however, adds: 'There is a great difference between a poor woman who destroys her infant for the pain she has to feed it and the one who has no other reason but to hide a crime of fornication.'"
"In the home, a woman certain to please quickly reaches her breaking point, a state of distraction and mental void that effaces her."
"Torn and tormented, she risks being a burden to the one for whom she dreamed of being a slave; she becomes importunate and obnoxious for want of feeling indispensable."
"Instead of accepting that desire is disguised as anxiety or is overcome by fear, we should consider this sort of pressing and frightened appeal"
"Little agitates me and everything used to agitate me."
"Nothing can set the regal character in a more contemptible point of view, than the various crimes that have elevated men to the supreme dignity."
"Without this natural delicacy, love becomes a selfish personal gratification that soon degrades the character."
"On July the day the women's suffrage law went to the Chamber, a nine kilometer long column paraded through London; the law rejected, there were more meetings and new arrests."
"This discovery overwhelmed me, adding the physical terror of this operation that I imagined to be extremely painful to the disgust I previously felt."
"Taxes on the very necessaries of life, enable an endless tribe of idle princes and princesses to pass with stupid pomp before a gaping crowd, who almost worship the very parade which costs them so dear."
"He even likes to see sportswomen beaten, wounded, exhausted, and bruised; as for the others, he wants them as helpless as possible."
"Tell me that you still love me, tell me that for you I am still the devoted friend."
"The apple, the pear nestling among the ashes, come out wrinkled and smoke tanned but soft under the skin like a mole's belly, and however bonne femme the apple cooked in the stove might be, it is a far cry from this jam enclosed in its original robe, thick with flavor, and if you go about it right has oozed but"
"But, as we will see, it is an activity that brings her no escape from her immanence and allows her no individual affirmation of herself."
"The International Labor Office succeeded in getting international agreements on sanitary conditions for women's work, maternity leave, and such."
"The exclusive affections of women seem indeed to resemble Cato's most unjust love for his country."
"Since this first call for birth control was associated with goals which could only be achieved by women possessing material wealth, vast numbers of poor and working class women would find it rather difficult to identify with the embryonic birth control movement."
"It is not because their sexual specificity is the source of creative energy or a manifestation of the existence of this superior energy; it is rather that being absorbed in serious work, they do not intend to waste their time playing the woman's role or struggling against men."
"The child would cling to me and did not leave my side."
"His caresses were so new to me that, well, I let myself go."
"A great song arose, the loveliest thing born this side of the seas."
"Education thus only supplies the man of genius with knowledge to give variety and contrast to his associations; but there is an habitual association of ideas, that grows with our growth, which has a great effect on the moral character of mankind; and by which a turn is given to the mind, that commonly remains throughout life."
"Our business is to fight with the sword and steel."
"When we hear of some daring crime it comes full upon us in the deepest shade of turpitude, and raises indignation; but the eye that gradually saw the darkness thicken, must observe it with more compassionate forbearance."
"Highly respected in the labor movement, both were invited to sit in the presidium alongside Eugene Debs and Big Bill Haywood during the founding convention of the."
"There are several opposing hypotheses as to its origins: according to some people, 'courtliness' comes from the lord's relations with his young vassals; others link it to Cathar heresies and the cult of the Virgin; still others say that profane love derives from the love of God in general."
"Virtue, as the very word imports, should have an appearance of seriousness, if not austerity; and to endeavour to trick her out in the garb of pleasure, because the epithet has been used as another name for beauty, is to exalt her on a quicksand; a most insidious attempt to hasten her fall by apparent respect."
"Strength of body, and that character of countenance, which the French term a physionomie, women do not acquire before thirty, any more than men."
"In the context of the whole feminist movement, the race suicide episode was an additional factor identifying feminism almost exclusively with the aspirations of the more privileged women of the society."
"Susie King Taylor was a nurse and teacher in the first Black regiment of the Civil War."
"Of course, the male needs her; with some primitive peoples, a bachelor, unable to support himself alone, may become a sort of pariah; in agricultural societies, a woman partner worker is indispensable to the peasant; and for most men, it is advantageous to unload some of the chores onto a woman; the man himself wishes to have a stable sexual life, he desires posterity, and society requires him to contribute to its perpetuation."
", a bivalve precisely closed, lip to lip"
"And those who, pretending to experience, though they have long adhered to prejudices that have, according to the opinion of the most sagacious physicians, thinned the human race, almost rejoiced at the disaster that gave a kind of sanction to prescription."
"It is difficult to play the idol, the fairy, or the remote princess when one feels a bloody piece of material between one's legs and, more generally, when one knows the primal misery of being a body."
"There is no image of woman that does not invoke the opposite figure as well: she is Life and Death, Nature and Artifice, Light and Night."
"One of them who kept me for a long time was very jealous, and so I left that street."
"The astonishing number of Puerto Rican women who have been sterilized reflects a special government policy that can be traced back to."
"These were not the ravings of imbecility, the sickly effusions of distempered brains; but the exuberance of fancy, that in a fine phrenzy wandering, was not continually reminded of its material shackles."
"Wells, who later founded the first Black women's suffrage club, occurred during those '… precious days in which I Wells sat at the feet of this pioneer and veteran in the work of women's suffrage.'"
"The pallakis replaced the wife in the master's bed if she was ill, indisposed, pregnant, or recovering from childbirth; so there was no great difference between a gynaeceum and a harem."
"While the man has a 'hard on,' the woman 'gets wet'; there is in the very word infantile memories of the wet bed, of the guilty and involuntary desire to urinate; man has the same disgust for his nocturnal unconscious wet dreams; projecting a liquid, urine or sperm, is not humiliating: it is an active operation; but there is humiliation if the liquid escapes passively since the body then is no longer an organism, muscles, sphincters, and nerves, commanded by the brain and expressing the conscious subject, but a vase, a receptacle made of inert matter, and the plaything of mechanical caprices."
"I think that you are some of the nicest people I ever met in my hol teen years of living"
"With few exceptions, the students in a female philosophy class overall have a markedly lower achievement level than a class of boys: many female students do not intend to continue their studies, they work superficially, and others suffer from a lack of competitiveness."
"In such conditions it is clear how rare it was for a wife to act or merely to make her presence felt:"
"To be a complete individual, equal to man, woman has to have access to the male world as man does to the female one, access to the other; but the demands of the other are not symmetrical in the two cases."
"He is far from delighting in 'feminine beasts' without ulterior motives; they are 'sick, nasty, never really clean'; Costals admits that young boys' hair smelled stronger and better than women's; Solange sometimes makes him feel sick, her 'cloying, almost disgusting, smell, and this body without muscles, without nerves, like a white slug.'"
"From the depths of solitude, of separation, the woman finds the sense of the singularity of her life: she has a more intimate experience than the man of the past, death, of time passing; she is concerned with the adventures of her heart, her flesh, her mind, because she knows that on earth she has but one lot; and also, because she is passive, she bears the reality that submerges her in a more passionate manner, with more pathos than the individual absorbed by an ambition or job; she has the leisure and the tendency to abandon herself to her emotions, study her feelings, and draw conclusions from them."
"It was my turn to be caught up, in a way, in the round."
"The very element which has destroyed slavery would side with the victorious South, and 'out of the nettle danger you would pluck the flower safety.'"
"This is the most common case."
"She finds poetry; she finds heroism too."
"Although Frederick Douglass was the nineteenth century's most brilliant proponent of Black Liberation, he did not fully understand the capitalist loyalties of the Republican party, for whom racism became no less expedient than the initial push for Black suffrage."
"The real conquest is"
"Again; men boast of their triumphs over women, what do they boast of?"
"Eve was not formed at the same time as man; she was not made either from a different substance or from the same clay that Adam was modeled from: she was drawn from the first male's flank."
"These are matters of fact, which have come under my eye again and again."
"And yet no step is more decisive"
"Given the historical genocide inflicted on the native population of the United States, one would assume that Native American Indians would be exempted from the government's sterilization campaign."
"This exactly expresses the meaning in the legend of the knight who hacks his way through thorny bushes to pick a rose never before inhaled; not only does he uncover it, but he breaks its stem, thereby conquering it."
"All country practitioners are aware of the frequent complaints of planters (about the) unnatural tendency in the African female to destroy her offspring."
"The stream can be aimed at will, the urine directed far away: the boy draws a feeling of omnipotence from it."
"A child's phrase amuses, then he repeats it: this time, they shrug their shoulders."
"Clothes can be an instrument of conquest but not a weapon of defense; their art is to create mirages, they offer the viewer an imaginary object: in the erotic embrace and in daily relations mirages fade; conjugal feelings like physical love exist in the realm of reality."
"Woman becomes impure the day she might be able to procreate."
"the spirit of subordination to masculine authority.'"
"Because their relations with half of humanity are commercial, because the whole of society treats them as pariahs, there is great solidarity among prostitutes; they might be rivals, jealous of each other, insult each other, fight with each other; but they have a great need of each other to form a 'counter universe' in which they regain their human dignity; the friend is the confidante and the privileged witness; she is the one who approves of the dress and hairdo meant to seduce the man, but which are ends in themselves in other women's envious or admiring gazes."
"As I have already said: men posit themselves as subjects, and at the same time they posit themselves as separate; to consider the other as a thing to take is to attack the virile ideal in the other and thus jointly in one's self as well; by contrast, the woman who regards herself as object sees herself and her fellow creatures as prey."
"I know that a little sensibility and great weakness will produce a strong sexual attachment, and that reason must cement friendship; consequently I allow, that more friendship is to be found in the male than the female world, and that men have a higher sense of justice."
"In the brothel, the moment of choice begins as a display; if choosing is more complicated, tableaux vivants and 'artistic poses' are offered to the client."
"if she is told, she is surprised and vexed and throws down her pen; she is not aware that the public reads with its own eyes and its own mind and that a brand new epithet can awaken in it many old memories; of course, it is a precious gift to be able to dig down into oneself and bring up vibrant impressions to the surface of language; one admires Colette for a spontaneity not found in any male writer; but although these two terms seem to contradict each other hers is a thoughtful spontaneity: she refuses some of its contributions and accepts others as she sees fit; the amateur, rather than seizing words as an interindividual relation, an appeal to the other, sees in them the direct revelation of her feelings; editing or crossing out for her means repudiating a part of self; she does not want to sacrifice anything both because she delights in what she is and because she hopes not to become other."
"A man who wants to hurt you is better than a woman who wants to help you."
"I wish to see women neither heroines nor brutes; but reasonable creatures.)"
"I'd like to turn somersaults instead of going to bed."
"you were sitting with your little feet upon a hassock, playing the guitar."
"Claudel believes in hierarchies and, among others, the family's: the husband is the head."
"Of course there are showgirls, taxi dancers, nude dancers, escorts, pinups, models, singers, and actresses who do not let their sexual lives interfere with their occupations; the more skill and invention involved in their work, the more it can be taken as a goal in itself; but a woman who 'goes onstage' to earn a living is often tempted to use her charms for more intimate commercial ends."
"Racism has always served as a provocation to rape, and white women in the United States have necessarily suffered the ricochet fire of these attacks."
"The chains of marriage are heavy, particularly in the provinces; a wife has to find a way of coming to grips with a situation she cannot escape."
"The prostitute who wishes to acquire a singular distinction does not limit herself to showing her flesh passively; she tries to have her own talents."
"I would like giants and all I find is men,' a friend once said to me."
"In the author of an article entitled 'A Nine Hour Day for Domestic Servants' described a conversation with a feminist friend who had asked her to sign a petition urging employers to furnish seats for women clerks. '"
"The psychoanalyst describes the child and the young girl as required to identify with the father and the mother, torn between 'viriloid' and 'feminine' tendencies, whereas we conceive her as hesitating between the role of object, of Other that is proposed to her and her claim for freedom; thus it is possible to agree on certain points: in particular when we consider the paths of inauthentic flight offered to women."
"Approximately the same percentage of Chicana women had been rendered surgically infertile."
"where find sufficient strength of mind to determine to begin the search, when her habits are fixed, and vanity has long ruled her chaotic mind?"
"Among the approximately three hundred women and men attending the Seneca Falls Convention, the issue of electoral power for women was the only major point of contention: the suffrage resolution alone was not unanimously endorsed."
"The gifts showered on her are chains."
"He is only seduced by the one who sets traps for him; offered, she is still the one who stalks her prey; her passivity takes the form of an undertaking, she makes her weakness a tool of her strength; since she is forbidden to attack outright, she is reduced to maneuvers and calculations; and it is in her interest to appear freely given; therefore, she will be criticized for being perfidious and treacherous, and she is."
"Marital power is rigorously exercised, both over the wife herself as a person and over her possessions."
"But she hadn't worried about it then Then, besides, there had been always kissing and things, to take up your mind"
"It is useful for her to know how to govern her heart and her sexual appetite: sentimental or sensual, she risks being under the influence of a man who will exploit ordominate her or make her suffer."
"The whole future is concentrated in this rectangle of light, and its frame makes a universe; outside these narrow limits, things are no more than disorganized chaos; the world is reduced to this piece of glass where one image shines: the One and Only."
"As paid housekeepers, they have been called upon to be surrogate wives and mothers in millions of white homes."
"But he never wants to risk himself amid his peers."
"Seems like they ain't nothing in the whole world I can do to make it pretty!'"
"The manner in which they treat servants in the presence of children, permitting them to suppose, that they ought to wait on them, and bear their humours."
"Besides, an erotic failure relegates her husband to the ranks of a brute: hated in his flesh, he will be reviled in spirit; inversely, we have seen how scorn, antipathy, and rancor doomed the wife to frigidity."
"I particularly object to the lover like phrases of pumped up passion, which are every where interspersed."
"In million women worked, million in industry, in business; a large number worked in business, industry, and liberal professions."
"There is also the case of the man allowed to deflower his wife normally but he has to wait three days to ejaculate in her so that the generating seed is not soiled by hymen blood."
"But there are deep analogies between the situations of women and blacks: both are liberated today from the same paternalism, and the former master caste wants to keep them 'in their place,' that is, the place chosen for them; in both cases, they praise, more or less sincerely, the virtues of the 'good black,' the carefree, childlike, merry soul of the resigned black, and the woman who is a 'true woman' frivolous, infantile, irresponsible, the woman subjugated to man."
"The appetites would answer every earthly purpose, and produce more moderate and permanent happiness."
"While at least one Black man was present among the Seneca Falls conferees, there was not a single Black woman in attendance."
"I looked at my sister with hatred because she did not yet know, because all of a sudden she found herself, unknown to her, endowed with an overwhelming superiority over me."
"If once again one asks, what for?"
"Whether she is active or contemplative, her attitude is accompanied by feverish exaltation."
"One might object that Natasha will at least have her children: but children are a source of joy only within a well balanced structure, where the husband is one of its peaks; for the neglected, jealous wife they become a thankless burden."
"Here I thought is another enterprise wild, dangerous, desperate and impracticable, and destined only to bring failure and suffering."
"At nine she played 'marriage' and 'doctor' with two other boys of eight and ten; they touched her parts and one day"
"You didn't care to use my secretary, I suppose."
"Once the Northern capitalists had established their hegemony in the South, the Republican party which represented the capitalists' interests participated in the systematic disfranchisement of Black people in the South."
"My body was mine alone, I only liked it brown, encrusted with sea salt, scratched by the rushes."
"Through Mellors, Lawrence expresses his horror of women who make him a tool of pleasure."
"it was an inspiration that had struck her long before."
"It is true that deserted and unused cellars and attics are full of unsavory mystery; they fill up with ghosts; abandoned by humanity"
"Women, I allow, may have different duties to fulfil; but they are duties, and the principles that should regulate the discharge of them, I sturdily maintain, must be the same."
"As early as the Grimke sisters chastised the New York Female Anti Slavery Society for failing to involve Black women in their work. '"
"Still today, she has these powers of divination:"
"Nature must ever be the standard of taste, the guage of appetite yet"
"The emotional consideration that adult women show the Man would be enough to perch him on a pedestal."
"This conversation, which took place in London on the opening day of the World Anti Slavery Convention, is frequently assumed to contain the real story behind the birth of the organized women's movement in the United States."
"Perplexed, quizzical, and playing with her necklace or twisting her ring, she murmurs: 'That's funny"
"We will see that the attitude of the couple is reversed in a love affair."
"Everything he wins, he wins against her; the more powerful he becomes, the more she declines."
"The richness and strength of their nature and fortunate circumstances have enabled some women to continue in their adult lives their passionate projects from adolescence."
"In the Middle Ages, the woman still retained some privileges: she took part in local meetings in the villages, she participated in the primary meetings for the deputies' election to the Estates General; her husband could exercise his own authority only over movables: his wife's consent was necessary to alienate real estate."
"And does Balzac really not know that an unshared love, on the contrary, annoys and disgusts?"
"Some women remain infantile their whole lives; the behaviors we have described are sometimes perpetuated to an advanced age."
"after we have thought in vain, only become the support of vegetable life, and invigorate a cabbage, or blush in a rose."
"The coquette is more than ever determined to please."
"Some women say they feel the masculine sex organ in themselves as a part of their own body; some men think they are the woman they penetrate; these expressions are obviously inaccurate;"
"it is high time she be left to take her own chances."
"But Frederick Douglass assumed an admirably anti sexist posture and proclaimed that he hardly felt demeaned by the label 'women's rights man."
"anger, sulking, urinary problems; they have recourse to the same coquetry to gain the love of adults."
"To redeem the mother is to redeem the flesh, and thus carnal union and the wife."
"Each time around Christmas, Mrs.W. appears at my office, palefaced, clad in somber black and complains of her fate."
"It could not have been a mere historical coincidence that so many of the white women who defended their Black sisters in the most dangerous of situations were involved in the struggle for education."
"Cited by Debesse, La crise d'originalit juv nile (The Adolescent Identity Crisis)."
"I got work at a hospital on the outskirts of Paris, working with women."
"In France contraception propaganda and the sale of pessaries, vaginal tampons, and such are prohibited; but birth control is no less widespread."
"Some, like Margaret Garner, went so far as to kill their children rather than witness their growth to adulthood under the brutal circumstances of slavery."
"Completed in Sarah Grimke's 'Letters on the Equality of the Sexes …' contain one of the first extensive analyses of the status of women authored by a woman in the United States."
"Thus in the confession collected by Stekel I have already cited, we read: I nursed my baby"
"I suppose you get used to it, you just do it automatically."
"Marcel Pr vost, advocate of marriage, admits it himself: How many times have I met after a few months or years of marriage a young woman I had known as a girl and been struck by the ordinariness of her character, the meaninglessness of her life."
"Montaigne says: Iniquitous appraisal of vices!…"
"Tota mulier in utero: she is a womb,' some say."
