"x"
"Every transcendental proposition, however, proceeds solely from one concept, and states the synthetic condition of the possibility of the object in accordance with this concept The ground of proof can therefore only be unique, since outside this concept there is nothing further by means of which the object could be determined, and the proof can therefore contain nothing more than the determination of an object in general in accordance with this concept, which is also unique."
"This is the character that belongs to the genus as the determinateness which is not separated from the universal."
"It lies in the nature of marriage itself, as the immediate form of ethical life, that it is a mixture of substantial relationship, natural contingency, and inner arbitrariness."
"A more thorough and more profound reflection on the subject by Moderatus of Gades is cited in Malchi Vita Pythagori (ed."
"that this negativity or pure inwardness of knowledge is just as much the self identical essence or in other words, that substance has here succeeded in becoming absolute seW consciousness"
"This process of drawing ever nearer to my final end is my finite end."
"Just as essence goes out into reflective shine in its determinations; or ground into concrete existence in appearance; and substance into manifestation in its accidents, so does the universal resolve itself into the singular; judgment is this resolution of the universal, the development of the negativity which, implicitly, it already is."
"Empirical determining bases are not suitable for any universal external legislation, but just as little also for an internal one; for each person lays at the basis of inclination his own subject, but another person another subject; and in each subject himself now this inclination and now another is superior in influence."
"But the concept of a monad is for just this reason a deficient reflection."
"al, or, by the same token, <U+FFFD>l <U+FFFD><U+FFFD>relates onlv imself. ."
", it would have to be nothing other than a harmony or disharmony of myself with myself."
"If, however, a concrete existence contains the concept not merely as abstract in itselfness, but as a totality existing for itself, as instinct, life, sensation, representation, and so forth, it itself then brings about, by itself, this transcendence and this transcending."
"In all judgments in which the relation of a subject to the predicate is thought (if consider only affirmative judgments, since the application to negative ones is easy), this relation is possible in two different ways."
"We have gathered from the natural relation that the tran scendental use of our cognition must have in its inferences as well as in its judgments that there will be only three species of dialectical infer ences, relating to the three species of inference by which reason can ar rive at cognitions from principles;a and"
"Exercise and attentiveness, keeping watch over ourselves: these must be constantly continued; and without continued effort no one is secure in his morality for even a single second."
"In fact, these concepts differ only to the extent that quantity is a pure thought determination, whereas matter is quantity in outer concrete existence."
"Just as little has consciousness an outer existence, for the objective aspect does not/get as far as heing a negative of the actual self, in the same way"
"Nonetheless, the moral law commands compliance, and indeed the most meticulous compliance, from everyone."
"The one and the void have their negative self reference as their common and simple terrain."
"In addition, the second and third sentences of this paragraph are omitted, and there are minor changes in the wording of the opening and fourth sentences."
"However, it quite different with us."
"The latter is the determinateness of the content that the ground has."
"First of all, with respect to its form, the problem is that of thinking the I at the requisite level of abstraction as something subsisting Bestehendes and fixed."
"In other words, for the will of a maximally perfe being the moral law is a law of holiness, but for the will of every finite rational being it is a law of duty, of moral necessitation, and of the determination of his actions through respect for that law and from reverence for his duty."
"It is the dutiful disposition of each person to spread morality outside of himself to the best of his ability and"
"But since the object is whatis true, the untruth falls in me; my apprehension was not correct."
"From theidea, then, of inversion, which constitutes the essential n;;ture of one aspect of the supersensible world, we must eliminate the sensuous idea of fixing the differences in a different sustaining element; and this absolute Notion of the difference must be represented and understood purely as inner difference, a repulsion of the selfsame, as selfsame, from itself and likeness of the unlike as unlike."
"Now since this harmony, despite all the purposiveness mentioned, is not cognized empirically, but a priori, it is just what should bring home to us the fact that space, by the limitation of which (by means of the imagination acting in accordance with a concept) the object was alone possible, is not a quality of the things outside me, but a mere mode of representation existing in myself."
"But if it is assumed, then more worlds are possible."
"It is true that in doing so it destroys itself, and thus satisfies the universal, but this very satisfaction, like there of the moments of this relationship, is a perverted form and movement of the universal."
"The positedness of the sides of external reflection is therefore a being, just as their non positedness is a non being."
"Now, as regards these moments themselves, they are directly derived from the notion of 'end in itselC, of a being whose end is its own self."
"No The syllogism matter how elegantly a deduction is run through inferences of this kind, however fully its correctness is to be conceded, all this still amounts to nothing, for the possibility is still there that other middle terms may be found from which the opposite can be deduced with equal correctness."
"The practical attitude, on the other hand, begins with thought, with the I itself, and seems at first to be opposed to the world because it immediately sets up a separation."
"The requirements of common understanding ensure such a preference without the least demand upon taste."
"In so far as the causal connexion is thought merely by means of understanding"
"Each individual equally, then, may reflect on it himself. ."
"But, since they encountered both the good and evil, the purposive and the counter purposive, very much interspersed, at least to human eyes, and could not take the liberty of assuming, for the sake of the arbitrary idea of an all perfect author, that there were nevertheless mysteriously wise and beneficent ends, of which they did not see the evidence, underlying all this apparent antagonism, their judgement on the supreme world cause could hardly be other than it was,"
"For, as thus determined, the quality of tangent or non tangent is reduced to a quantitative difference: the tangent is the line to which, with respect to the determination here at issue, the greater smallness accrues."
"A A First of all, what are we really conscious of when we believe that we are conscious of our own efficacy in the sensible world?"
"For my person, however, I, individual, am only insofar as I am."
"But the immediate in itself or the necessity that simply is, is itself different from the in itself that thinks, or from the cognition of necessity a difference, however, which at the same time does not He outside of the Notion, for the simple unity of the Notion is immediate being itself."
"It makes a distinction between the Notion of End and being forself and self.preservation, a distinction which is none."
"As the immediate unity of the form determinations, this necessity is actuality, but an actuality which, since its unity is now determined as indifferent to the difference of the form determinations, has a content."
"Its second commonplace, to which even those resort who concede the right of the judgement of taste to pronounce with validity for everyone, is: there is no disputing about taste."
"Feuerbach's theorf bases punishment on threat and main tains"
"(see I below); the following paragraphs, and, were thus originally numbered and ); the content of the original paragraph, now renumbered, is also changed."
"Freedom does not follow from the law, no more than the law follows from freedom."
"Its producing cause had an end in view to which the object owes its form."
"itself: the pure 'I' its."
"If the other extreme delivers,!er to consciousness only the surface of its being, yet consciousness also gives thanks; and in surrendering its own action, ie its essential being, it really does more than the other which only sheds a superficiaLelementofitself."
"Great achievement may in turn be assured that public opinion will subsequently accept it, recognize it, and adopt it as one of its prejudices."
"Two concepts are at play in this conversion, as it has been called, of the mechanical into the dynamic way of looking at things: the concept of self subsisting parts that subsist outside one another and are only externally bound together into a whole, and, different from this, the concept of force."
"consciousness, apresence which abides within itself, is not objective and also does not look outwards."
"and then it is said of spirit that it is either sweet or notsweet, green or not green, and so on, this is a triviality that leads nowhere."
"From this, further devastating consequences ensue for the Idea of the state."
"sophistry, and the truth it has itself determined and established."
"The Laplander finds animals in these regions, namely reindeer, to bring about this communication."
"I perceive in all of them the fact that they know themselves to be only these independent beings, just as I am."
"It has lost both the worth it attached to its immediate personality and the worth attached to its personality as mediated, as thought."
"Being Ex nihilo, nihil fit is one of the propositions to which great significance was attributed in metaphysics."
"In Plato's republic, subjective freedom is not yet recognized, because individuals still have their tasks assigned to them by the authori ties Obrigkeit."
"One may speak of duty in a most sublime manner, and such talk glorifies the human being and fills his heart with pride."
"Any tolerable state simply must make it easy for someone to change his estate; the opposite is absolutely contrary to right, and no governor can tolerate such a situation in good conscience."
"Synthetic propositions that pertain to things in general, the intuition of which cannot be given a priori, are transcendental."
"limits and these changes would not belong, unseparated and inseparably, to spatiality."
"A similar confusion which could have arisen in the administration of justice during the later Roman Empire because of the differing authorities of all the famous jurists was averted when an emperor devised the ingenious expedient, known as the law of dtations/ which introduced a kind of college of long deceased lawyers with a majority vote and a president (see Hugo's History of Roman Law edition."
"In the case of the lever, 'weight' and 'distance from a point' are called its mechanical moments because of the sameness of their effect, in spite of the difference between something real like weight, and something idealized such as the merely spatial determination of 'line.'"
"This doing, therefore, has the reverse significance; it contradicts the universal ordinance."
"the synthesis, ie the synthetic unity of the consciousness of this manifold in the concept of an object (apperceptio comprehensiva);."
"The possibility of such an escape route does not even occur to an honest person; and hence the concept of lying would never have entered into the system of human concepts simply through the honest person, nor would an investigation into the morality of the white lie have entered into ethics."
"The true meaning of this syllogism's lack of conformity to the general form of the syllogism is that the latter has passed over into it, for its truth consists in being a subjective, contingent conjoining of terms."
"For there is certainly no likeness between a despotic state and a hand mill, whereas there surely is between the rules of re<U+FB02>ection upon both and their causality."
"to: what is true, as little as it may be, but also to expand his cognition (E ."
"The former ought to be surrendered."
"The system knows how to resolve and assimilate the determinations in which these assumptions conflict with it, so that they re emerge in it, but duly modified accordingly."
"All of them would like to live rationally and ethically, but they do not quite know how to set about doing this nor what pertains thereto: this is the presupposition from which the teacher proceeds."
"At one time it is as what is presupposed, or the reflection into itself which is the immediate."
"Translated correctly, such an appeal asserts that we want to save the other person, but only if we ourselves can remain safe in the process."
"There could, of course, be several individuals outside of me who influence me."
"See also the Critique of Pure Reason, and the famous passage at xxx, as well as A and A and the Critique of Judgment, Ak., and."
"The simple substance of Spirit, as consciousness, is divided."
"Why do you so confidently presuppose that he will not do this?"
"The third special rule of pure reason, if it is subjected to a discipline in regard to transcendental proofs, is that its proofs must never be ap agogic but always ostensive."
"In this, we must begin from the beginning."
"Reason is the certainty of consciousness that it is all reality; thus does idealism express its Notion."
"For what this subject matter is, that is precisely what ought to result only in the course of the science, what the latter cannot presuppose to know in advance."
"if the other says, and in turn says if the other says, and who by contradicting themselves buy for themselves the pleasure of continually contradicting one another."
"From whence the concepts of space and time with which they busy themselves (as the only original quanta) might be derived, they have never con cerned themselves, and likewise it seems to them to be useless to inves tigate the origin of pure concepts of the understanding and the scope of their validity; rather, they merely use them."
";z fIito<U+FFFD> J<U+FFFD>tIifi)llghth<U+FFFD>'"
"The other side recognizes their truth, and promises to demonstrate the possibility of a nature according to the idea of final causes."
"The latter are of special importance, because private persons, despite their selfishness, find it necessary to have recourse to others."
"There is accordingly no real polemic in the field of pure reason."
"It is absolutely true that an artist is born an artist."
"I mean here the real definition,' which does not merely supply other and more intelligible words for the name of a thing, but rather contains in itself a clear mark by means of which the object (definitum) can always be securely cognized, and that makes the concept that is to be explained usable in application."
"at consciousness really holds to he"
"There can be no drive within the I to cease being an I, to become a not I; for in that case the I would aim at its own annihilation, which is contradictory."
"But the liberation from the opposition of consciousness that science must be able to presuppose elevates the determinations of thought above this anxious, incomplete standpoint, and demands that they be considered for what they are in and for themselves without any such cautious restriction, as the logical, the purely rational."
"The time does not need these defenses."
"This reminder concerns above all the concept of freedom."
"Yes, you can do that too, but only in such a way that it is all the same to you whether someone says that the divine wisdom has ordered everything to its supreme ends, or that the idea of the highest wisdom is a regulative one in the investigation of nature and a principle of the systematic and purposive unity thereof in accordance with universal laws, even where we are not aware of it;.e., where you do perceive purposive unity, it must not matter at all whether you say,"
"But since reflection thus reverts from its differentiating act only to the identity of the absolute, it has not at the same time left its externality behind and has not arrived at the true absolute."
", it means the complete good."
"the dissolution of appearance The world that exists in and for itself is the determinate ground of the world of appearance and is this only in so far as, within it, it is the negative moment and hence the totality of the content determinations and their alterations that correspond to that world of appearance, yet constitutes at the same time its completely opposed side."
"If a substance passes out of a state a into another state, then the point in time of the latter is different from the point in time of the first state and follows it."
"Since subjective reflection expresses the two connections of the middle to the extremes as particular and indeed immediate judgments or propositions, the conclusion as the mediated connection is of course also a particular proposition, and the 'hence' or the 'therefore,' is the expression that it is the one which is mediated."
"This complete magnitude of thedomain, in relation to such a condition, is called universality (uni versalitas)."
"The idealism of the noble Malebranche is in itself more explicit."
"Absolute necessity is therefore blind."
"Beyond all doubt the great purposiveness present in the world compels us to think that there is a supreme cause of this purposiveness and one whose causality has an intelligence behind it."
"But in the textbook cited above, Herr Hugo also has occa sion to speak of rationality in connection with Roman law, and I was particularly struck by the following points."
"If there is no God, then the furtherance of the good does not proceed in accordance with any rule, for no such rule is contained in the course of nature, which makes no reference whatsoever to freedom; nor is any such rule within the power of finite beings, and for the same reason: because human beings act only with natural force."
"its identity, as an intellectual sub stance, gives us personality; all these points together give us spiritual ity; the relationb to objects in space gives us the interactionc with bodies; thus it represents the thinking substance as the principled of life in matter,.e."
"Vermijgen Verhdltnis A"
"I A always disputing among themselves about the discoveries that each would like to have made on his own, have brought their science into contempt first among others and finally even among themselves."
"For this purpose he employs plant life, which is no longer sacred as it was to the earlier impotent pantheism; on the contrary, the artificer who grasps himself as the being that is jar itself, takes that plant life as something to be used and reduces it to an outer aspect, to a mere ornament."
"There is no such thing as a spatially or temporally unlimited space or time"
"Whatever in this abstractive generation of the universal is left out of the concrete is then picked up, still externally, by the finite cognition of the Cf."
"Ak. Or 'optionally,' or perhaps 'arbitrarily': beliebig."
"It would ha,ve to be content with being treated so badly for it would not deserve anything better, since .even"
"But the limit is equally, essentially, the non being of the other; thus, through its limit, something at the same time is."
"This feeling provides cognition with immediate certainty, with which calm and satisfaction are connected."
"Therefore a philosopher who believed himself compelled to base his practical judging on a feeling of pleasure would call good what is a means to the agreeable, and evil what is a cause of disagreeableness and of pain; for the judging of the relation of means to purpos does indeed belong to reason."
"Now, in giving to the procedure, or causal operation of nature, the name of technic, on account of the suggestion of an end which we find in its products, we propose to divide this technic into such as is designed (technica intentionalis) and such as is undesigned (technica naturalis)."
"umani ty which is bound by this law does not live in the blessed unity of the Jaw with the heart; but either lives in their cruel separation and in suffering, or at least dispenses with the enjoymentofitselfin obeying the law, and lacks the consciousness of its own excellence in transgressing it."
"Happy times for metaphysics those, when it was practiced at court and no greater effort was called for to demonstrate its propositions than to compare the leaves of trees!"
"I can have a satisfactory reason for assuming something relatively (suppositio relativa) without being warranted in assuming it absolutely (suppositio absoluta)."
"The absolute completeness of the composition of a given whole of all appearances.a."
"Observation has now todeal with thernore determinate relatiqn of these aspects."
"its transcendental ideality,.e."
"We have seen at the end of the Principles that the concept of causality serves to de termine the relation Verhaltnis of the temporal sequence in the course of its appearances a priori; if we take time away, then it is for nothing."
"What Napoleon gave to the Spanish was more rational than what they had before, and yet they rejected it as something alien, because they were not yet sufficiently cultivated gebildetV"
"Existence Non existence"
"In this, in their otherness, they have thus returned into themselves; what each is, that it is in its other; the other constitutes the determinateness of each."
"Here we began with the main point."
"For example, one says this of what a projecti performs when it is in free motion, because while it is in flight it is not impelled by anything outside it."
"(One cannot see, feel, etc."
"gave its object the shape ofactual self consciousness."
"This disparity between Notion and reality which lies in its essence, is learnt by consciousness from experience in its work; in work, therefore, consciousness becomes what it is in truth, and its empty Notion of itself vanishes."
"I do my duty purely and solely insofar as I fulfill these particular obligations for the sake of duty in general."
"But the elements for all a priori cognitions, even for arbitrary and absurd fantasies, cannot indeed be borrowed from experience (for then they would not be a priori cognitions), but must always contain the pure a priori conditions of a possible experience and of an object of it, for otherwise not only would nothing at all be thought through them, but also without data they would not even be able to arise in thinking at all."
"It is all the more necessary for me to contribute in this way to what I hope will be a more thorough cognition of the nature of spirit, because, as I pointed out in the Encyclopaedia (Remarks to, it is hard to imagine that any philosophical science can be in so bad and neglected a condition as that doctrine ofspirit which is usually called 'psychology'."
"speculative reason as well as its utter incomprehensibility; and if thereafter they had proceeded with it to the practical use, they would have had to arrive on their own at exactly the same determination of it in regard to its principles, which they are ordinarily so reluctant to acce"
"I am nevertheless supposed to ascribe this natural drive to myself; moreover, as we saw in the first section of this I am supposed to posit this drive as something that does indeed belong to me, even though it does not properly constitute me."
"But since a merely subjective condition of a judgement permits no determinate concept of its determining ground, this ground can only be furnished through the feeling of pleasure, though in such a way that the aesthetic judgement is 'First to the Critique of Judgement always a judgement of re<U+FB02>ection."
"For in accordance with the first inference, reason takes it as already settled that something or other has to exist with absolute necessity."
"Women may well be educated, but they are not made for the higher sciences, for philosophy and certain artistic productions which require a universal element."
"The modes of connection are the species of calculation."
"The mind feels itself set in motion in the representation of the sublime in nature; whereas in the aesthetic judgement upon what is beautiful therein it is in restful contemplation."
"If we compare the progressive realization of quantum in the preceding ratios, we find that quantum's quality of being the difference of itself from Ratio or the quantitative relation itself is simply this: that it is a ratio."
"The negative in the universal, by virtue of which this universal is a particular, was earlier determined as a doubly reflective shine."
"Now this contains within itself the two sides, condition and ground, as its moments; it is the unity to which they have returned."
"But again, since the content which is its consequence has the nature of externality when the determination is made into a ground, it can be immediately sublated by some other externality."
"Ground is essence as positive self identity which, however, at the same time refers itself to itself as negativity and therefore determines itself, making itself into an excluded positedness; but this positedness is the whole selfsubsisting essence, and essence is ground, self identical in its negation and positive."
"which can as well be as not be."
"Verstandesobjects an intellectual system of the world, or rather believed himself able to cognize the inner constitution of things by comparing all objects only with the understanding and the abstract formal concepts of its thinking."
"You only have to make clear to yourself what you are actually thinking, you only have to learn to understand yourself."
"Secondly, let us consult the instances, albeit rare, of individuals who, with the best of sight, have failed to distinguish colours, and, with the sharpest hearing, to distinguish tones, while for those who have this ability the perception of an altered quality (not merely of the degree of the sensation) in the case of the different intensities in the scale of colours or tones is definite, as is also the number of those which may be intelligibly distinguished."
"And then of course there can arise deceptive representations, to which objects do not correspond, and where the deception is sometimes to be at tributed to a semblance of the imagination (in dreams), sometimes to a false step of judgment (in the case of so called sense deceptions)."
"Such a person is not satisfied with factual cognition but demands genetic cognition; he wants to know not merely that such a compulsion is present within him, but he also wants to see how it originates."
"But conversely, the consequences also include external interventions and contingent additions which have nothing to do with the nature of the action itself."
"But where no political institutions are present, the foundation and furtherance of primogeniture are merely fetters on the freedom of civil right, and they must either acquire a political significance, or face eventual extinction."
"As this thought of externality, number is at the same time the abstraction from the manifold of the senses; it has retained nothing of the senses except the abstract determination of externality itself, and in it the senses are thus brought closest to thought."
"The attraction of the existent ones is their ideality and the positing of the one, and in this, as both the negating and the producing of the one, attraction sublates itself, and as a positing within it of the one, is the negative of itself: it is repulsion."
"Here I have only wanted to note that since the thoroughgoing connection of all appearances in one context of nature is an inexorable law, it necessarily would have to bring down all freedom if one were stubbornly to insist on the reality of appearances."
"it in fact is; indeed, the ought, if one has merely the course of nature before one's eyes, has no significance whatever."
"The universality in question is concrete within itself and consequently has being for itself, and it is the substance of the self consciousness, its immanent generic character Gattung or immanent idea; it is the concept of the free will as the universal which extends beyond its object, which permeates its determination and is identical with itself in this determination."
"For in the chemical sphere a matter receives its specific determinateness essentially in the connection with its other; it exists concretely only as this non indifference."
"It becomes the complete fusion of two rational individuals into one: unconditional surrender on the part of the woman, a vow of the most sincere tenderness and magnanimity on the part of the man."
"Therefore, it is not the self consciousness of absolute being as it is in and for itself, not religion, that is here dealt with"
"Now the dialectical movement of the syllogism of existence consists in positing the moments of the mediation that alone constitutes the syllogism."
"The executive power is concerned ,vith the transition from the universal to the particular and individual, and its functions must be divided in accordance ,vith its different branches."
"It will, perhaps, be said that this is also the case where an object of nature only interests by its beauty so far as a moral idea is brought into partnership therewith."
"The power of feeling is the proper point of unification of both, though only insofar as what is subjective is considered to be dependent upon what is objective, as follows from our description above."
"The principle of idealism was stated in an earlier Remark where it was said that in a philosophy all depends on how far this principle is implemented."
"We will present all this material the following sequence: the first section a it ap peared in both editions, with the last paragraph of the first edition version followed by the last three paragraphs that replaced it in the second edition; the second and third sections as they appeared in the first edition; then the second section, consisting of num bered parts through as it appeared in the second edition."
"The transcendental objectb that grounds both outer appearances and inner intuition is neither matter nor a thinking being in itself, but rather an unknown ground of those appearances that supply us with our empirical concepts of the former as well as the latter."
"reflection by another, as transferred from the intellect to the object."
"This process of reciprocally convincing one another is possible only on the condition that one can proceed from something upon which both sides agree; otherwise neither understands the other at all, and they do not influence each other but remain isolated from each other, with each person speaking his piece only for himself, while the other does not listen to him."
"that is, to the just mentioned images of atoms, of the filling of the intervening spaces in the solvent by the atoms of the solid bodies, and so on."
"Although the practice of these disciplines had been universal and customary, in the case of logic down to our own time, its interest in their speculative side has been just as universally and customarily restricted."
"The objective reality of the idea of God, regarded as a moral author of the world, cannot, it is true, be substantiated by means of physical ends alone."
"This un certainty I call the ideality of outer appearances, and the doctrine of this ideality is called idealism, in comparison with which the assertion of a possible certainty of objects of outer sense is called dualism."
"The form of right as a and a law is felt by it to be a dead, cold letter and a shackle; duty for it does not recognize itself in the law and thereby recognize its own freedom in it, because the law is the reason of the thing Sache and reason does not allow feeling to warm itself in the glow of its own particu larity Partikularitiit."
"For unless they are, they would not, when taken together, form a quantum such as certainty is."
"If someone has gone astray and is not allowed to communicate his errors, then how is he to be helped, and how are others to be helped in the future if they should go astray in the same fashion?"
"This much can still be noted here, namely that in so far as the relation of cause and effect is admitted, albeit in an inappropriate sense, the effect cannot be greater than the cause."
"There are few immediate materials which do not need to be processed: even air has to be earned inasmuch as it has to be heated and perhaps water is unique in that it can be drunk as it is found."
"It may be noted in this connection that since an increment with no quantum is being assumed here only for the sake of the development, it would have been more suitable to take (the unit) for that purpose, for that increment constantly recurs as a factor in the development, and the factor of one fulfills precisely the purpose of having an increment without any quantitative determinateness or alteration being posited thereby; whereas dx, burdened as it is by the false representation of a quantitative difference, and other signs such as, burdened for their part by a show of generality that is here pointless, always have the semblance and the pretension of a quantum and its powers; and the pretension, despite its being just that, brings with it the trouble of removing and omitting what is pretended."
"But something has also a determination or circumstance, whether in itself (here the accent is on the in) or in it; in so far as this circumstance is in it externally, it is a being for other."
"Empirical concepts have, therefore, their territory, doubtless, in nature as the complex of all sensible objects, but they have no realm (only a dwelling place,domicilium), for, although they are formed according to law, they are not themselves legislative, but the rules founded on them are empirical, and consequently contingent."
"But if, on the contrary, you were to ask Priestley, who is devoted only to the principles of the empirical use of reason and is disinclined to all transcendental speculation, what sort of motives he had for tearing down two such pillars of all religion as the freedom and immortal ity of our soul (the hope of a future life is according to him merely the expectation of a miracle of resurrection), he, who is himself a pious and Bestimmung Sache, used in this sense throughout the remainder of this section."
"This is not the case with a product of nature; to be sure, there is a concept present in this case as well"
"Book I three classes, of which the first contains the absolute (unconditioned) unity of the thinking subject, the second"
"Kant's point here, at least in part, is that in ordinary German unerlaubt just like 'not permitted' in ordinary English means not merely 'permission has not been given' but, in effect, 'forbidden' or 'prohibited.'"
"There is, however, no other kind limitedness of reason through itself than that limitedness that follows simply from the fact that the rational being is an I."
"The understanding, however sharp, makes the mistake of holding such thought fictions, such abstractions as an infinite aggregate of parts, to be a thing, something true and actual; but this sensuous consciousness will not let itself be brought, beyond empirical content, to thoughts."
"a content which is the opposite of what they had for us."
"His true orlginal nature and subs tance is the alienation of himself as piri from his natural being."
"Before the true content can also receive its true form for consciousness, a higher formative development of consciousness is necessary; it must raise its intuition of absolute Substance into the Notion, and equate its consciousness with its self consciousness for itself, just as this has happened for us, or in itself;."
"See the Critique of Pure Reason, A /B esp."
"An under standing, in which through self consciousness all of the manifold would at the same time be given, would intuit; ours can only think and must seek the intuition in the senses."
"The genera content of the actual 'way of the world' we already know"
"Exis or are mere thoughts which we set up in opposition to ourselves."
"Consequently, since I do as I must think of myself as having an effect on this stuff, I also become for myself stuff; and insofar as I view myself in this way, I call myself a material body."
"In this general regard, therefore, I never draw nearer to the infinite."
"Note first of all the great difference between a demand of duty that one expose one's life to danger and a demand that one destroy it."
"But they do not thereby determine a greater sphere of objects, since one cannot assume that such objects can be given without presupposing that another kind of intuition than the sensible kind is possible, which, however, we are by no means justified in doing."
"Thus, from the other side, it also declares the essence of faith to be somethirig alien to consciousness, to be not ,its essence but a changeling foisted on it."
"it does not run away into sense perception."
"Of course, the triadicform must not be regarded as scien."
"What is at first sight objectionable about retribution is that it looks like something inunoral, like revenge, and rna thus be interpreted as a personal matter."
"But this whole movement goes on outside the absolute."
"highest state offices and of the real property in land des reinen Landeigentums under the title of 'manorial estates' Ritterg ter inasmuch as other goods are for the most part not real property"
"For the former, however, the superfluous plurality of properties concentrates itself into the essential antithesis of individuality and universality; and still more for ethical perception, which is the purified substantial consciousness, does the plurality of ethical moments become the duality of a law of individuality and a law of universality."
"The negation of real possibility is thus its self identity; inasmuch as in its sublating it is thus within itself the recoiling of this sublating, it is real necessity."
"Thus the words ground (support, basis), to depend (to be held up from above), to <U+FB02>ow from (instead of to follow), substance (as Locke puts it:"
"Thus if one assumes an objectb of a non sensible intuition as given, one can certainly represent it through all of the predicates that already lie in the presupposition that nothing belonging to sensible intuition pertains to it: thus it is not extended, or in space, that its duration is not a time, that no alteration (sequence of determinations in time) is to be encountered in it, etc."
"At any rate, it makes absolutely no difference if that logical content is called form, and by content is understood only the remaining empirical filling, for even then the form would not contain a mere empty identity outside which the content determination would then lie."
"concept (in the concept of the object and the composite."
"Thus no dogmatic objection can be made against the physical influence that is commonly assumed."
"This division is systematically generated from a common principle, namely the faculty for judging (which is the same as the faculty for thinking), and has not arisen rhapsodically from a haphazard search for pure concepts, of the completeness of which one could never be certain, since one would only infer it through induction, without reflecting that in this way one would never see why just these and not other concepts should inhabit the pure understanding."
"One enquires regarding its seat, the spatial location from which its forces operate; still more, how this thing can be imperishable, subjected to the conditions of temporality yet exempt from alteration in it."
"But the unconditioned, if it actually occurs, isd par ticularly to be considered according to all the determinations that dis tinguish it from everything conditioned, and must thereby give us material for many synthetic propositions a priori."
"which principle is the supreme one in the whole of human cognition."
"But I am in fact simply under a misapprehension, for while I believe that I am adhering to the particular, the universal and the necessity of the wider context neverthe less remain the primary and essential factor."
"Instead, my remark is aimed especially at those materialistic and atheistic teachers of ethics who were formerly so favored abroad, such as Helveti and others, who said that a human being simply does everything out of self interest, and that his nature contains no other motive for action"
"For inasmuch as we are compelled to rest its intrinsic possibility on the causality of final causes and an idea underlying this causality, we cannot but think that the real existence of this product is also an end."
"Since, then, in religion the determination of the consciousness proper of Spirit does not have the form offree otherness, Spiries existence is distinct from its self consciousness, and its reality properfaUs outside ofreligion."
"But in fact such an immediate singular is definitely not universal; its predicate is of wider extension, does not correspond to it."
"This highest formal unity that alone rests on concepts of reason is the purposive unity of things; and the speculative interest of reason makes it necessary to regard every ordinance in the world as if it had sprouted from the intention of a highest reason."
"The two kinds of art pursue completely different courses."
"the act of all alike and as simple being."
"But now, why is it that at one condition a new condition is asked for, that is, why is that condition assumed to be something conditioned?"
"If, therefore, through this critical in vestigation we learn nothing more than what we should in any case have practiced in the merely empirical use of the understanding, even without such subtle inquiry, then it would seem that the advantage that one will draw from it would hardly be worth the expense and preparation."
"However, it does not follow that everything that is demanded by the natural drive is also suitable for one's ethical vocation."
"to endure mere being."
"Still, a person who acts in accordance with the above listed drives certainly does act legally, though he does not act absolutely morally, and to this extent he acts in a manner that violates morals)."
"Institutions like those of Rome totally misap prehend the right of marriage"
"Quantum the dull figures of geometry leave a lot to be desired anyway), it is still up to thinking alone to extract this wisdom and bring it to light, a wisdom that is only implicit in them, and not only in symbols but in nature and in spirit."
"Accordingly, purpose is finite, even though according to form it is equally infinite subjectivity."
"The result, therefore, is the unity of the in itself and positedness."
"But even if the action that I was counting on and that was accomplished by the other person were legal, I would still have acted completely in violation of duty."
"One cannot speak of an injustice ofnature in the unequal distribution of possessions and resources, for nature is not free and is therefore neither just nor un ust."
"it holds tobesacred which"
"As for a beautiful science a science which, as such, is to be beautiful, is a nonsense."
"The truth about this integrity, however, is that it is not as honest as it seems."
"To this one might respond that I may change my opinion and my operating assumptions"
"But the conision of duties is comic because it expresses a contradiction, viz."
"How far does the duty of beneficence extend?"
"fOf self or pure negativity."
"On account of its simplicity or seW.iden tily it appears fixed and enduring."
"There is no room for opinion in a priori judgements."
"We have the same relation when God is defined as the ground of nature."
"(a) Hypocrisy contains the following moments: (a) knowledge of the true universal, whether in the form merely of a feeling of right and duty or of a more advanced knowledge Kenntnis and cognition of these; (<U+FFFD>)"
"The effective action of this substance thus begins from something external, frees itself from this external determination, and its turning back into itself is the preservation of its immediate concrete existence and the sublation of the one which is posited, and consequently of its causality as such."
"It is now in the sense that an infinite, that is, an inexhaustible multitude of numbers, can also be put in the place of the and of a function, that a and are magnitudes just as variable as these and."
"This being, according to the determination which it has now acquired, is quantity."
"but as both subjective and objective, which is how it was established in the preceding section."
"The question of the what would be easy to answer, and has been answered by Kant in his way."
"Furthermore, the manner in which you communicate your discovery to us shows that you are not so entirely indifferent to whether we accept it or not; on the contrary, you make it your earnest business to convince us, and you defend your proposition as vigorously as possible."
"The concept of freedom is based upon this: that I ascribe to myself the power to realize or, and hence that I am able to unite these opposite determinations, as opposites, in one and the same act of thinking."
"True' and 'false' belong among those determinate notions which are held to beinert and wholly separate essences, one here and one there, each standing fixed and isolated from the other, with which it has nothing in common."
"Since it has now been shown that the historical significance of origins, along with their historical demonstration and exposition, belongs to a different sphere from the philosophical view of the same origins and of the. ,<U+FFFD>"
"But it has already been shown that the two are in themselves the total concept; consequently, that in singularity they do not pass over into an other but that, on the contrary, what is posited in it is what they are in and for themselves."
"But in the end that science, so highly praised for its apodeictic certainty, must also succumb to empiricism in Cf."
"All of a person's efficacious acting within society has the following goal: all human beings are supposed to be in agreement; but the only matters that all human beings can agree on are those that are purely rational, for this is all they have in common."
"If it is now claimed that the purpose of the good is thereby The idea of cognition still not realized, what we have is a relapse of the concept to the standpoint that it assumes prior to its activity, when the actual is determined as worthless and yet presupposed as real."
"But the exposition of that which alone can be the true method of philosophical science falls within the treatment of logic itself; for method is the consciousness of the form of the inner self movement of the content of logic."
"It is evident from the nature of the thing Saclle that the conflict is not of this kind if the matters in dispute are not the essential elements of the political organism but more specialized and trivial things Dinge and if the passion with which even this content is associated consists of factional rivalry over merely subjective interests such as the higher offices of state."
"The hypothetical proposition If there is perfect jus tice, then obstinate evil will be punished really contains the relation of two propositions, There is a perfect justice and Obstinate evil is pun ished."
"Consequently, what is called the unutterable is nothing else than the untrue, the irrational, what is merely meant but is not actuallyexpressed."
"If, on the other hand, something else, be it sensation or concept of the understanding determines the judgement, it is then conformable to law, no doubt, but not an act of free judgement."
"Yet what reason itself assembles according to its own laws it also should undoubtedly be able to dissemble again according to these same laws;.e."
"The pendulum necessarily comes to a state of rest because of the direct effect of gravity, yet"
"Drives or inclinations are primarily a content of the will, and only reflection stands above them; but these drives Triebe themselves become impelling treibelld pres<U+FFFD> upon each other, and conflict with each other,"
", a priori certain unity of the connection of appearances."
"But it is very easily demonstrated, and it has already been obvious for some time, that this attempt to bring unity to the plurality of the faculties one that was otherwise undertaken in a genuinely philosophical spirit is futile."
"f; but this created world is its speech, which likewise it has immediately heard and only the echo of which returns to it."
"It is a very superficial view that attributes equal value to all propositions, on the ground that each generally contains a truth, and in the formal progression from step to step of a proof each is equally essential."
"Such an absolutely necessary being of the understanding may always be impossible in itself, yet this can by no means be inferred from the universal contingency and dependence of everything belonging to the world of sense, nor can it be inferred from the principle' that we should not stop with any individual member of it and appeal to a cause outside the world."
"The stage immediately above this is the view that the good will consists in willing the good; this willing ofgood in the abstraa is supposed to be sufficient"
"The positive element of the infinite judgment, the negation of the negation, is the reflection of singularity into itself by virtue of which the singularity is first posited as the determinate determinate. '"
"but as essential laws of every free will by itself."
"Thus laws against breach o/copyright do attain their end of protecting the property rights of authors and publishers to the (albeit very limited) extent specified."
"In contrast to the kind of freedom described earlier viz., formal freedom I wish to call this kind of freedom 'material freedom.'"
"Hence the question can only be, whether this principle is merely subjectively valid, that is, a mere maxim of judgement, or is an objective principle of nature."
"Now insofar as the imagination is spontaneity, I also occasionally call it the productive imagination, and thereby distinguish it from the reproductive imagination, whose synthesis is subject solely to empirical laws, namely those of association, and that therefore contributes nothing to the explanation of the possibility of cognition a priori, and on that account belongs not in transcendental philosophy but in psychology."
"is so entirely out of place, that those who are always intent only on enjoyment (for that is"
"More precisely, the mediation of the first syllogism was implicitly a contingent one; in the second syllogism, this contingency is posited."
"We must let ourselves point to it; for the truth of this immediate relation is the truth of this 'I' which confines itself to one 'Now' or one 'Here'."
"On this statement the opposite theory of individual preformation might also more appropriately be called the theory of involution (or encasement)."
"On the one hand, simple and universal determinations are required for the public legal code, but on the other, the nature of thefitlite material in question leads to endless further determinations."
"his own interests must also be matched by the extent to which he serves others, and so far as he serves others, so far is he taking care Df himself: one hand washes the Dther."
"Thus Leibniz thought of space as a certain order in the community of sub stances, and thought of time as the dynamic sequence of their states."
"Consequently, this positedness is equally identical with itself, but in an identity which is that of the negative with itself."
"The syllogism in its immediate form has for its moments the determinations of the concept as immediate."
"Consequently, the determination of my existence in time is possible only by means of the existenceb of actual things that I perceive outside myself."
"For it expresses the way the figure lends itself to the production of many proposed figures, and it is cognized through reason."
"Its refusal is rather to let itself be brought affirmatively to its affirmative, the infinite, to be associated with it; it is therefore inseparably posited with its nothing, and thereby cut off from any reconciliation with its other, the affirmative."
"Reason is negative and dialectical, since it dissolves the determinations of the understanding into nothing; it is positive, since it generates the universal, and comprehends the particular therein."
"The same is the case with its opposite: sensible displeasure or pain."
"Thus does the sun, his daily path completed, still shed a gentle light across the sky."
"Essence as such is one with its reflection, inseparable from its movement."
"Only in the downfall of both sides alike is abso."
"The spiritual universe is supposed rather to be at the mercy of contingency and arbitrariness, to be god forsakell, so that, according to this atheism of the ethical world, tntth lies outside it, and at the same also supposed to be present in it, time, since reason is nevertheless truth is nothing but a problem."
"Right is something utterly sacred, for the simple reason that it is the existence"
"('purpose'), which would yield the translation 'only what was my purpose'."
"It is just itself and nothing else."
"To distinguish the spheres to which a specific form of the concept belongs, that is, in which the concept is present in concrete existence, is an essential requirement when philosophizing about real objects."
"Thus, given that its ltent is necessary for itself, the second step is to look around for what corresponds to it in our ideas Vor;tell lgen and language."
"I the parties must be obliged by law to submit themselves to a simple court (a court of arbitration or court of the first instance) in an attempt to settle their differences before they proceed any further."
"(Recall what was said earlier on pp."
"Since it is precisely in this that the reality and power of public order consist, the latter thus appears as the self identical essence alive in everyone, and individuality appears as its form."
"it would seem that,."
"Freedom, as we have now seen, is conditioned by the body, by life, and by property."
"The lord is the consciousness that exists for itself, but no longer merely the Notion of such a consciousness."
"For this reason, the element of identity is immediate also with respect to both of the two determinations of immediacy, first as in itself, as a content on which causality is deployed externally; second, as a concrete existent substrate in which cause and effect inhere as different determinations of form."
"But a closer inspection shows that this expansion has not come abou through one and thesameprinciplehavingsP.onta neously assumed different shapes, but rather through the shapeless repetiti.on .of"
"Respectively, Allwissenheit, Allg tigkeit (literally, 'omnibenignity'), Allmacht."
"If the task of a treatise on the concept were to give all the determinate concepts that there are, then we would have to cite all possible determinations for all determinations are concepts, hence determinate concepts and we would have to list as species of concepts all the categories of being as well as all the determinations of essence."
"We will present each version of the chapter up to the appen dix in its entirety, repeating those passages that were not changed."
"this transcendental realist who afterwards plays the empirical ideal"
"The idea and division of a special science under the name of a critique of pure reason."
"This contradiction sublates itself; and its reflection into itself is the identity of their two sided subsistence, namely that the positedness of the one is also the positedness of the other."
"There, one is conscious of unity as law; there, the content must be rational, and I must know it."
"In contrast, one can ascertain the reasons for some of the other determinations of a rational being."
"In fact, in so far as scientific stringency goes, it also had to fall short of physics."
"I regard the sum total of all cognition of pure and speculative reason as an edifice for which we have in ourselves at least the idea, then I can say that in the Transcendental Doctrine of Elements we have made an estimate of the building materials and determined for what sort of edifice, with what height and strength, they would suffice."
"Nevertheless, such publicity is the most important means of education as far as the interests of the state in general are concerned."
"Third, the other is therefore to be taken in isolation, with reference to itself, has to be taken abstractly as the other, the teron of Plato who opposes it to the one as a moment of totality, and in this way ascribes to the other a nature of its own."
"What recommends this manner of explanation is its great clarity and easy comprehension, for there is nothing clearer and more open to comprehension than that a plant, for instance, has its ground in a vegetative, that is, plant producing, force."
"Or 'attribute': Bestimmung."
"(The error of the mystics is that they represent the infinite, which cannot be attained in any time, as something that can be attained in time."
"As high as this abstraction rises in making this simple determinateness of the one and the void the principle of all things, by reducing the manifold of the world to this simple opposition and daring to derive knowledge of it from the latter, just as easy is it for figurative reflection to picture atoms here and the void next to them."
"I is moved, determined, and changed without any participation on the part of freedom, in the same way that a mere thing is also changed."
"The indifference of the magnitudes of these moments in the course of their alteration displays itself as an infinite progression, the basis of which is that in their indifference their determinateness is to have their value each in the value of the other."
"It is easy to see why it would be an easy step in this judgment to go outside the judgment itself and to regard its determination as something merely subjective."
"Since they both still have in them the determination of quantum, they remain alterable and the absolute determinateness which would be a being for itself is thus not attained."
"a rational psychology rational cosmology transcendental theology Problem"
"so this path is the conscious insight into the untruth ofphenomenal knowledge, for which the suprem reality is what is in truth only the unrealized Notion."
"that space, just like intuition itself, must also be conceptualized if one wants to comprehend conceptually at all."
"On the division of an investigation of the feeling of the sublime"
"If its shape is to express Spirit itself, it must be nothing else than Spirit, and Spirit must appear to itself, or be in actu 'ity, what it is in its essence.'"
"As regards the content of theorems, there is one further precision to be made."
"msc us aspect; that this aqtual deed bepossihle, the diyineBeiqg rnu lready have sacrificed itseJfin.principl."
"The realm of Spirits which is formed ih this wa in the outer world consti tu tes a succession in Time in which one Spirit relieved another of its charge and each took over the empire of the world from its predecessor."
"But in reference to the understandability of an object (the highest good) assign to us, after all, by the moral law, and hence of a need with a practical aim, it can be called faith, specifically pure rational faith, because pure reason alone (in its theoretical as well as in its practical use) is the source from which it springs."
"an opposition between right in itself and the particular will as that in which right becomes a partiadar right."
"The greatest and perhaps only utility of all philosophy of pure reason is thus only negative, namely that it does not serve for expansion, as an organon, but rather, as a discipline, serves for the determination of boundaries, and instead of discovering truth it has only the silent merit of guarding against errors."
"Such an investigation is an absolute duty, and when something is undecided in one's own mind then it is unconscionable to continue to allow it to occupy its place."
"But where it does detect the earnestness of the Notion in its onward march dashing these figures to pieces, and comes to see how ill it fares with its venerated gods who dare to trespass on ground where the Notion holds sway, then it is not itself the negative power which actively interferes; on the contrary, it clings to the self less thought of such power, clings to the consciousness of an alien fate and produces the empty desire for ease and comfort, and .feeble talk of appease ment."
"The observers, seeing that each is in turn first victor then vanquished, often take the occasion"
"I originally find myself as simultaneously subject and object; and what each of these is can be grasped only through its opposition and relationship to the other."
", I have already called attention to the fact that the philosophy that assumes its position at the standpoint of substance and stops there is the system of Spinoza."
"As ground, therefore, essence is excluding reflection because it makes itself into a positedness; because the opposition from which the start was just now made and was the immediate is the merely posited determinate self subsistence of essence; because opposition only sublates itself within, whereas essence is in its determinateness reflected into itself."
"Oonsequently, this distinction, too, which obtained between the two Forces, one ofwhich was supposed tohe the soliciting, the other the solicited, Force is transformed into the same reciprocal interchange of 'the determinatenesses. '"
"The determinacy of pure doing as such, however, yields no being, but rather an ought."
"This second relation we must leave aside for the time being; it will prove to be the subject matter of integral calculus."
"Only through the discipline of being apprehended does it become capable of universality."
"We said that I hood consists in the absolute identity of what is subjective and what is objective (the absolute unification of being with consciousness and of consciousness with being)."
"Other than being, however, there is nothing for us but thinking."
"The single moment must therefore fill some time as well, for nothing can arise through the unification of several single moments of the same type that is not contained in these single moments."
"that the other consciousness sets aside its own being for self, and in so doing itself does what the first does to it."
"For to the concept that exists for itself, the objective world immediately has the form of immediacy or of being, just as that concept is to itself at first only the abstract concept of itself, is still shut up within itself."
"The step by step determination of the species of calculation that we have just given cannot be said to be a philosophical treatment of them, not an exposition of their inner meaning as it were, for it is not in fact an immanent development of the concept"
"I tadmits, in fact, to being eviL by asserting that it acts, in opposition to the acknowledged uJ:).iversal, according to it own inner law and conscience."
"For, let the concept determining the causality be a concept of nature, and then the principles are technically practical; but, let it be a concept of freedom, and they are morally practical."
"For to deal in proof is essential to mathematical cognition, since it is scientific cognition; and even with respect to results, the fact is that rigorous mathematical method does not certify them all with success, which is an external piece of evidence anyway."
"Existence of the finite; the restrictedness to which being and becoming would somehow be susceptible even if they do not have it or exhibit"
"For the latter expresses not only empty, simple self equality, but the other of this self equality, and not just this other in general but as The essentialities or the determinations of reflection absolute inequality, contradiction in itself."
"Thus space taken absolutely (sim ply by itself) alone cannot occur as something determining the existence of things, because it is not an object at all, but only the form of possible objects."
"However, that matter is now realized in that its sides are both measures, one distinguished as immediate and external and the other as internally specified, while measure itself is the unity of the two this constitutes a further determination."
"But the whole is nothing other than the essence consummating itself through its development."
"But although this ought not to happen, it can still be argued that the proper strength of states resides in their internal communities Gem ldetl."
"But it is entirely im possible to go from a concept by itself out beyond it and, without following its empirical connection (which, however, will at every time provide only appearances), to attain to the discovery of new objects and transcendent beings."
"While, however, the first postulate expresses the harmony of morality and Natyre, as a harmony that simply is, because in it Nature is this negative."
"Difference is, therefore, itself and identity."
"Whether it is useful to venture determinate answers with regard to such views is at least doubtful, and perhaps even dangerous."
"But to what extent is the threat compatible with right?"
"Also equally present is the other side which makes it again a matter of indifference to a moment of measure whether it receives its neutralizing quantum from several opposite moments, from each according to the determinateness that specifies it as against an other; the exclusive, negative relating is at the same time vulnerable to this incursion of the quantitative side."
"But the means is the external middle term of the syllogism which is the realization of purpose; in the means, therefore, the rationality in the purpose manifests itself as such by maintaining itself in this external other, and precisely through this externality."
"First, both are negated in that progression, the infinite as well as the finite; both are equally transcended."
"The subjective necessity attributed to a judgement of taste is conditioned"
"But in the practical idea it is as actual that it stands over against the actual; but the certainty of itself that the subject possesses in being determined in and for itself is a certainty of its actuality and of the non actuality of the world; it is the singularity of this world, and the determinateness of its singularity, not just its otherness as abstract universality, which is a nullity for the subject."
"you sublime, grand name which encompasses nothing that is favored yet involves ingratiation, but which demands submission, yet also does not seek to move the will by threatening anything that would arouse natural aversion in the mind and terrify, but merely puts forth a law that on its own finds entry into the mind and yet gains grudging veneration (even if not always compliance), a law before which all inclinations fall silent even if they secretly work against it: what origin is worthy of you, and where does one find the root of your noble desce that proudly rejects all kinship with inclinations, the root from which to be descend is the irr missible condition of that worth which human beings alone can give themselves?"
"Of the method of the deduction of judgements of taste The obligation to furnish a deduction, ie a guarantee of the legitimacy of judgements of a particular kind, only arises where the judgement lays claim to necessity."
"A <U+FB02>ower, on the other hand, such as a tulip, is regarded as beautiful, because we meet with a certain purposiveness in its perception, which, in our judgement of it, is not referred to any end"
"That is to say when I intuit myself as an object I ascribe to myself only a limited quantum of all the activity I could as I am quite aware ascribe to myself."
"With Spinoza, the mode is likewise the third after substance and attribute; Spinoza defines it as the affections of substance, or as that which is in another through which it is also comprehended."
"I, However, this unity of universality and the activity does not exist for this observing consciousness, because that unity is essentially the inner movement of the organism and can only be grasped as Notion; but observation seeks the moments in the form of bring, of enduring being; and because the nature of what is organically a whole is such that the moments are not contained in it nor can beJound in itin that form, consciousness converts the antithesis into one that conforms to its point of view."
"In rational psychology, such as was this abstract metaphysics, the soul was considered not as spirit but as an immediate existent, as a soul thing."
"sundered and self moved, and at the same time would be, for itself, undifferentiated in its antithesis."
"For, the former must always be the archetype of their conduct in any station, and the advance toward it is possible and necessary already in this life; but the latter, under the name of happiness, cannot (insofar as our own ability is at issue) be attained in this life at all and hence is made solely an object of hope."
"But because the absolute at the same time contains every difference and form determination in general, or because it is itself absolute form and reflection, the difference of content must also come into it."
"can be an actual person without a relationship Relatioll with other persons (see."
"then we do so only insofar as it is referred to our sensibility and the feeling of pleasure and displeasure that it brings about."
"Its aim is only to repulse the enemy or to disarm him, to render the state upon which war is being made defenseless and to force it to enter into a lawful relationship with our state."
"Two such examples go under the familiar names of 'the bald' and 'the heap.'"
"The essence, the Substance, for which the Self was only Jan accident, has sunktothe level of a predicate; and in this self consciausness over against which there is nothing in the form of essence, Spirit has lost its consciousness."
"It is accordingly the individual subject as such which bears the entire respollsibility for its lI evil."
", a triangle has three angles, is absolutely necessary, and in this way one talked about an object lying entirely outside the sphere of our understanding as if one understood quite well what one meant by this concept All the alleged examples are without exception taken only from judg ments, but not from things and their existence.'"
";: denketl; this seems to be a misreading by Gans of the equivalent phrase in Hotho's notes, hat wenig sidl selbst danken ('owes little to its own efforts')."
"Even in a science of nature, in so far as it rests upon empirical principles, namely physics in the proper sense, the practical procedures for discovering the hidden laws of nature, under the name of 'experimental physics', can never justify the (equally nonsensical) name of 'practical physics' as a part of natural philosophy."
"But, so developed that the opposition of its existence and of the negation as the limit immanent to this existence is the very in itselfness of the something, and this is thus only becoming in it, this negation constitutes the finitude of the something."
"But just this is its motive."
"In the unrestricted Notion there are directly found the two aspects: that everything objective has only the significance of being for selj, of self consciousness, and that this has the significance of a universal, that pure insight is to become the property of every self consciousness."
"This proposition has a twofold meaning, inasmuch as reason's acting can be viewed from two different sides."
"Consciousness, which in its very first reality is sense certainty and mere 'meaning', returns here to this from the whole course of its experience and is again a knowledge of what is purely negative of itself, or of things of sense, ie of things which immediately and indifferently confront its being Jor selj."
"The Divine Law which governs the family has likewise on its side differences within itselfwhose interrelationships con stitute the living process of its actuality."
"The infinite reference of the concept to itself is as negativity a self determining, the diremption of itself within itself as subjective singularity and itself as indifferent universality."
"The syllogism of allness comes under the schema of the first figure, U; the syllogism of induction under that of the second, because it again has singularity for its middle term, not abstract singularity but singularity as completed, that is to say, posited with its opposite determination, that of universality."
"bone is not an organ of activity, nor even a 'speaking' movement."
"We will now see whether such a command of duty is possible."
"The sum total of all possible objects for our cognition seems to us to be a flat surface, which has its apparent horizon, namely that which comprehends its entiredomain and which is called by us the rational concept of unconditioned totality."
"Or again, heat has a degree; this degree, whether the th, the th, etc., is a simple sensation, something subjective."
"So far as the concept in general is concerned, in the determinations of amount and unit this movement of externalization and return has been accomplished only in principle in the development of the particular concept of number."
"Between these necessary maxims of re<U+FB02>ective judgement a con<U+FB02>ict may arise, and consequently an antinomy."
"Kant's text is much abbreviated."
"still remains an unsolved problem, despite all attempts at coalition made thus far."
"Thus we began with the"
"For one cannot get from one object and its existence to the existence of another or its way of existing through mere concepts of these things, no matter how much one analyzes them."
"Acquisitions of property and transactions relating to it must therefore be undertaken and expressed in the fomz which that existence gives to them."
"It can also Judgment be mentioned in this context that a proposition can indeed have a subject and predicate in a grammatical sense without however being a judgment for that."
"Or again, in the minor it is already exclusive singularity, and in the conclusion it is positively posited as the determinate that it is."
"Subjectively expressed, the concept of a necessary being arises for us when we connect one being to another."
"He has a universal duty to come to your aid, and now this is his particular duty as well, out of gratitude to you for not betraying his location."
"True, Kant's dialectical displays in the antinomies of pure reason, when examined more closely as will be done at length in the course of this work, do not deserve great praise; but the general idea to which he gave justification and credence is the objectivity of reflective shine and the necessity of the contradiction which belongs to the nature of thought determinations"
"Actual Reason, however, is not so inconsistent as that; on the contrary, being at first only the certainty that it is all reality, it is aware in this Notion that.ua certainty, qua l', it is not yet in truth reality, and it is impelled to raise its certainty to tru th and to give filling to the empty mine'."
"But when the presence of nothing in a determinate existence is thus demonstrated, this distinction of it from being still commonly comes to mind, namely that the existence of the nothing is nothing at all that pertains to it per se."
"For one says that one thing is too great or too small relative to another only when the former thing is assumed to exist for the sake of the latter, and hence has to be adapted to it."
", we do not understand what this single unity"
"There is only one totalityc in which all of our representations are contained, namely inner sense and its a priori form, time."
"But being for other is, first, the negation of the simple reference of being to itself which, in the first place, is supposed to be existence and something; in so far as something is in an other or for an other, it lacks a being of its own."
"ame time something universal and indeterminate which has all kinds of objects Gegm standel and can be satisfied in all kinds of ways."
"It is in the application to spatial objects that the analytical relation fully shows itself in its qualitative determinateness as the transition from linear to plane determinations, from the determinations of straight"
"There, what isfor the'!'"
"Things are therefore in and for themselves determinate; they have properties by which they distinguish themselves from others."
"The manifold activities of human beings are subordinated to one another as what is conditioned and its condition, as end and means; and thus so must those who engage in such manifold activities be subordinated to one another in the same manner."
"When we represented the antinomy of pure reason in a table through all the transcendental ideas, where we showed the ground of this con flict and the only means of removing it which consisted in declaring both of the opposed assertions to be false we in all cases represented the conditions for their conditioned as belonging to relations of space and time, which is the usual presupposition of common human under standing, on which, therefore, the conflict entirely rested."
"What causes thought to succumb, what produces the falling and the giddiness, is nothing else but the boredom of this repetition that makes a limit disappear, come up again, and again disappear, and so lets the rising and the perishing of the one for the other, and of the one into the other, of the here into the there, and the there into the here, perpetuate itself, only conveying the feeling of the impotence of this infinite, this ought, which would want to be master of the finite but cannot."
"Such a law may have the authority of God and the state behind it, and the authority of the thousands of years for which it was the bond by which human beings and all their deeds and destinies were held together and sustained authorities which encompass countless individual conviaions."
"In other words, the principle of the division of powers contains the essential moment of difference, of real rationality; but such is the view of the abstract understanding that, on the one hand, it attributes to this principle the false determination of the sufficiency of each absolute self power in relation to the others, and on the other hand, it one sidedly interprets auffassen the relation of these powers to one another as negative, as one of mutual limitation."
"The former is called the use of reason in accordance with concepts, because we can do nothing further than bring appearances under concepts, according to their real content, which cannot be determined except empirically,.e.,"
"The understanding constitutes an object for reason, just as sensibility does for the understanding."
"Further, we have not even tried to prove the possibility of freedom; for this would not have succeeded either, be cause from mere concepts a priori"
"status (see Heineccius, Elemetlta iuris civilis ); hence in Roman law even personality itself, as opposed to lllij, slavery, <U+FFFD><U+FFFD> or condition"
"Systematic elucidation of the conditions of I hood in their relationship to the drive for absolute self sufficiency"
"This movement is thus the interaction of consciousness with itself in ,which it lets nothing break loose to become afree ohjectstanding over agains tit."
"The Science of Subjective Logic or The Doctrine of the Concept foreword"
"How then is the limitation of our efficacy to be explained from this perspective not, to be sure, explained with respect to its form (i.e., why such a limitation has to be posited at all), for this is precisely the question we have just answered by means of a deduction, but with respect to its material (i.e., why this limitation is thought precisely in the way that it is thought,"
"Now an object of sense can be thoroughly determined only if it is compared with all the predicates of appearance and is represented through them either affirmatively or negatively."
"(What we are about to deduce will be universally valid, since it will become evident that a rational being is not possible at all without any consciousness of this freedom, and thus also not possible without the conditions for such freedom; and since one of these conditions is a consciousness of morality, a rational being is also not possible without such consciousness."
"In (-, the first minus means 'opposite to,' but the second, the (-, has the value of something opposed in itself, outside the reference to."
"Supposition supponieren A"
"In this connexion there are two points which it is most necessary to note for the purpose of preventing a misunderstanding which might easily arise."
"Expressed as a proposition, the concrete would be first of all a synthetic proposition."
"Now, this example can counsel us to enter upon this same path in dealing with the moral predispositions of our nature and can give us hope for a similar good result."
"Thus it cornes forward hereasself.;;feeling, oras an actual consciousness existing on its own account."
"On them is grounded, therefore, all formal unity in the synthesis of the imagination, and by means of the latter also all of its empirical use (in recognition, reproduction, association, and apprehension) down to the appearances, since the latter belong to our consciousness at all and hence to ourselves only by means of these elements of cognition."
"The artist, then, learns in his work that he did not produce a being like himself."
"This small loss, which in any case can be compensated for, if anyone likes, by comparing the first and second a my existence can be determined, is sensible, and is bound to a condition of time; however, this determination, and hence inner experience itself, depends on something permanent, which is not in me, and consequently must be outside me, and I must consider myself in relationa to it; thus for an experience in general to be possible, the reality of outer sense is necessarily bound up with that of inner sense,.e."
"What pure reason judges assertorically must be necesim Einzeln jeden Individuum"
"If the terms analytic and synthetic are used as opposites, the first premise may be regarded as the analytic moment, for in it the immediate relates to its other immediately and therefore passes over, or rather has passed over, into it though this connection, as already remarked, is for this very reason also synthetic, for it is its other that it passes over into."
"These principles have the peculiarity that they do not concern the appearances and the synthesis of their empirical intuition, but merely their existence and their relation to one another with regard to this their existence."
"If a woman submits to a man out of love, from this there arises with moral necessity a marriage."
"Such a thing is the way it is, simply because this is how it is."
"The first case cannot occur in this situation for the obedient child"
"But what essentially has been gewesen ist is, in fact, not an essence that is kein Wesen it is not, and it was with being that we were concerned."
"According to our presupposition, however, the entire sphere that is excluded from the sphere of my own freedom is, so to speak, occupied by other possible individuals, even if it is not occupied by actual ones; and from this presupposition it also follows that I determine my individuality further through each action."
"This was the reply to the first of the two questions of pure reason that concern the practical interest: Do that through which you will become worthy to be happy."
"It would not form an inherent principle of natural science: whereas in the case of the empirical laws of the natural ends which organisms present it is not only permissible, but even unavoidable, to Analytic of Teleological Judgement use the teleological mode of judging as a principle of natural science in respect of a peculiar class of its objects."
"Passive is that which is immediate, or which exists in itself but is not also for itself pure being or essence in just this determinateness of abstract selfidentity."
"The general ground on which the movement of these shapes produced from the Notion takes place, is the consciousness expressed in the first imaginative language that of the Epic where the content, devoid of a sdf,is left disunited."
"The sensuous universality, or the immediate unity of being and the negative, is thus a property only when the One and the pure universality are developed from it and differentiated from each other, and when the sensuous universality unites them; it is this relation of the universality to the pure essential moments which at last completes the Thing."
"This latter is a mere fiction, through which we encompass and realize the manifold of our idea in an ideal, as a particular being; for this we have no warrant, not even for directly assuming the possibility of such a hypothesis, just as none of the consequences flowing from such an ideal have any bear ing, nor even the least influence, on the thoroughgoing determination of things in general, on behalf of which alone the idea was necessary."
"Gradually remove from your experiential concept of a body everything that is empirical in it the color, the hardness or softness, the weight, even the impenetrability there still remains the space that was occupied by the body (which has now entirely disappeared), and you cannot leave that out."
"In fact, however, absolute possibility (which is valid in every respect) is no mere concept of the understanding, and can in no way be of empirical use, rather it belongs solely to reason, which goes beyond all possible empirical use of the understanding."
"The blind transition of necessity is rather the absolute's own exposition, its movement in itself which, in its externalization, reveals itself instead."
"He says of these laws, among other things, 'that their content is usually very insignificant, even if great value may be placed in books on such documentary liberties.'"
", one which would be present in space without impenetrability; consequently we also cannot conceive of any community of substances that would be different from anything that experience provides; I no presence except in space, no duration except merely in time."
"Consequently only the second way remains So that one may not prematurely take issue with the worrisome and disad vantageous consequences of this proposition, I will only mention that the cat egories are not restricted in thinking by the conditions of our sensible intuition, but have an unbounded field, and only the cognition of objects that we think, the determination of the object,b requires intuition; in the absence of the latter, the thought of the object can still have its true and useful consequences for the use of the subject's reason, which, however, cannot be ex pounded here, for it is not always directed to the determination of the object, thus to cognition, but rather also to that of the subject and its willing."
"hich prod uces a dwelling and adornmen ts for the glory of the god."
"The divine nature is the same as the human, and it is this unity that is beheld."
"The highest ends, however, are those of morality, and only pure reason can grant us cognition of these."
"The simple direct arbitrariness of the deceased cannot be made the principle of the right to make a will, especially if it is opposed to the substantial right of the family; for the love and veneration of the family for its former member are primarily the only guarantee that his arbitrary will will be respected after his death."
"Now although this eternity belongs to the pure concept by nature, the determinations of the concept are eternal essentialities only according to form; but their content is not proportionate to this form and, therefore, they are not truth, or imperishable."
"But this ultimate self determination can fall within the sphere of human freedom only in so far as it occupies this supreme position, isolatedfor itselfand exalted abflVe evel)'thing particular and con ditional; for only thus does its actuality accord with its concept (G)."
"Those, however, who think or pretend to think that they have been deceived by this interference, wanted really themselves to practise the same kind of deceit."
"But morality, or a causality according to ends that is subordinate to morality, is an absolutely impossible result of natural causes."
"But virtue is not yet, on that account, the whole and complete good as the object of the power of desire of rational finite beings."
"But spirit is not the contradiction that the thing is, which dissolves itself and passes over into appearance."
"For the corresponding text in the edition ff."
"But he must also clearly understand from the outset its inevitable difficulty, so that he will not complain of obscurity where the subject matter itself is deeply veiled or become annoyed too soon over the removal of hindrances, since we must either surrender completely"
"Second, it is that which is grounded, the immediate that, however, is not anything in and for itself: is positedness as positedness."
"would be the latter, making an intelligible world repre sentable."
"Only in determinate light (and light is determined through darkness: in clouded light therefore), just as only in determinate darkness (and darkness is determined through light: in illuminated darkness therefore), can something be distinguished, since only clouded light and illuminated darkness have distinction in them and hence are determinate being, existence."
"Once this principle is accepted, the rational can of course appear only as a limitation on the freedom in question, and not as an immanent rationality, but only as an external and formal uruverSaf."
"This first becomes apparent because real necessity, although something necessary according to form, is still something limited according to content, and derives its contingency through the latter."
"The Main Philosophical Works,."
"Our problem therefore is as follows:."
"This way of thinking insolently pretends that one cannot live as the moral law demands, that the precise execution of the latter is impossible a pretense that is quite common in ordinary life, but which has also insinuated itself from there into philosophical and theological systems."
"Act in such a way that you could think of the maxim of your will as a principle of a universal legislation."
"The world of the ethical Spirit is its own present world; and therefore each of its powers exists in this unity, and in so far as they are qistinct from one another they are in equilibrium with the whole."
", space has only three dimensions; but such propositions cannot be empirical or judgments of experience, nor inferred from them."
"Appearance Third, appearance and law have one and the same content."
"Being and the One are both Eleatic forms which are the same thing."
"The connection of repulsion and attraction"
"But on this point it is to be remarked that inasmuch as the concept is to be presented as the concept of God, it ought be apprehended as it is when already taken up in the idea."
"The infinite, which in the infinite progress only has the empty meaning of a non being, of an unattained but sought beyond, is in fact nothing other than quality."
"Now direct your attention solely to this"
"In this situation, members of civil society, who depend for their livelihood on their activity, their knowledge Wissen and volitioll, remain alienated not only from their own most personal interests but also from the substantial and rational basis of these, namely right, and they are reduced to a condition of tutelage, or even a kind of serfdom, in relation to the class Stalld in question."
"Its further procession out of itself that appeared namely as the immediate communication and subsumption of the presupposed object under it is at one and the same time the sublating of that determinateness of externality which was internal, shut up in the concept, that is, posited as sublated, and the sublating of the presupposition of an object; consequently, this apparently first sublating of the indifferent objectivity is already the second as well, an immanent reflection that has gone through mediation, and the realized purpose."
"The absolute idea itself, but"
"Now from all of this there results the idea of a special science, which can be called the critique of pure reason.b ForC reason is the faculty that provides the principlesd of cognition a priori."
"But that is also the a Meinung willkiirlich Princip only thing we had to do to remove the apparent antinomy, and it could be done only in this way."
"Something is said to be positive in itself, outside the reference to something negative, and something negative in itself, outside the reference to something negative: in this determination, merely the abstract moment of this reflectedness is held on to."
"; now in so far as the differentiated determinateness is taken as a differentiated determinate reference of positedness to itself, opposition is, on the one hand, positedness reflected into its likeness with itself; and, on the other hand, it is the same positedness reflected into its inequality with itself: the positive and the negative."
"It is by no means a principle Prinzip but only a consequence of or an inference from a true principle, that is, a consequence of the command concerning the absolute self sufficiency of reason."
"Many things may for him possess charm and agreeableness"
"in order to find that extension is connected with it, but rather I need only to analyze that concept,.e., become conscious of the manifold that I always think in it, in order to encounter this predicate therein; it is therefore an analytic judgment."
"But mathematics, certainly, plays not the slightest part in the charm and movement of the mind produced by music."
"But, equally so, there is nothing in the two forces thus alternately referring to each other that determines which would be the soliciting and which the solicited, or rather, both of these form determinations belong to each in equal manner."
"Where art, merely seeking to actualize a possible object to the cognition of which it is adequate, performs whatever acts are required for that purpose, then it is mechanical."
"Matter is posited, on the contrary, as referring only to itself and as indifferent to the other; but, implicitly, it does refer to the form, for it contains the sublated negativity and is matter only by virtue of this determination."
"on; on the contrary, its extema existence ts ardness, its own self. '"
"These determinations hereby constitute the determinate shine as it is in essence, the essential shine."
"This relationship is necessary' means that a determinate, desired feeling follows another determinate feeling only under the condition that between these feelings other, intermediate determinate feelings, which are determinate as to their kind, their quantity, and their sequence, intervene."
"On this account, I avail myself of the only means within my capacity to show my gratitude for the gracious trust with which your Excellency honors me, as though that could con tribute something to this aim."
"; similarly, Spirit in the element of essence is the form of simple oneness, which therefore is equally essentially an othering of itself."
"Still, in the sense in which Aristotle, too, defines Nature as purposive activity, purpose is what is imme diate and at rest, the unmoved"
"The aesthetic faculty of re<U+FB02>ection thus judges only about the subjective purposiveness (not the perfection) of the object, and the question now arises whether it judges only by means of the pleasure or displeasure which is felt here, or whether it even judges about the latter, so that the judgement simultaneously determines that pleasure or displeasure must be combined with the representation of the object."
"Now even if such a so called construction of matter had at most analytical merit, however diminished because of a flawed exposition, the thought on which it is based, namely that matter must be made out to be from these two opposing determinations as its fundamental forces, must always be highly esteemed."
"It is therefore desirable that anyone who beco les a member of the Estates should possess a character, insight, and will consistent with his task of participating in universal concerns."
"It is not even to be called a notion (a concept of the understanding).'"
"The reason given for supposing that this latter force is only a surface one Kant,."
"Offenheit and no more dangerous one than concealment Verstecktheit."
"But that empirical rule of association, which one must assume throughout if one says that everything in the series of oc currences stands under rules according to which nothing happens that is not preceded by something upon which it always follows on what, I ask, does this, as a law of nature, rest, and how is this association even possible?"
"as something invisible, intangible, etc., and therefore in fact not as an immediate being and not as what is meant by a Thing."
"Non ignoras', says Caecilius very aptly to Favorinus, 'legum opportunitates et medelas pro temporum moribus et pro rerum publicarum generibus, ac pro utilitatum praesentium rationibus, proque vitiorum,"
"artly as something external, an existmt world, with these two aspects of the Idea mediated only through each other; the Idea in its division or particular existence Existmz"
"In architecture the chief point is a certain use of the artistic object to which, as the condition, the aesthetic ideas are limited."
"This indeterminacy of the material and its form makes it impossible for laws on such matters to attain that determinacy which the law requires; and since any misdemeanour, wrong, or injury assumes the most particular and on it likewise becomes a wholly Verletzutlg here subjective shape, judgement subjective decision."
"At the same time, however, the reflection of the property into itself constitutes only one side of the whole reflection, namely the sublation of the distinction and the continuity of the property (which was supposed to be a concrete existence for an other) with itself."
"This textbook is a more extensive, and in particular a more systematic, exposition of the same basic concepts which, in relation to this part of philosophy, are already contained in a previous work designed to accompany my lectures, namely my Ellcyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences (Heidelberg,."
"These three different ways of circumventing the strength of the moral law can occur together."
"An occurrence of what is willed does not, however, follow upon every act of willing."
"For if appearances are things in them selves, then freedom cannot be saved."
"But the 'I' is, as such, at the same time also a concrete, or rather, the 'I' is the most concrete of all things the consciousness of itself as an infinitely manifold world."
"The second is the unmediated identity of their difference, the immediate conversion of each into its opposite, or it is inner and outer as pure form."
"Thus the teleological mode of explanation is in no way prejudiced."
"That a crime committed in society should appear greater and yet be punished more leniendy is an apparent contradiction."
"Such doctrines are intimately connected with that self styled philosophy, frequently referred to, which denies that already truth and the truth of the spirit as will, its rationality in so far as it actualizes itself, is to be found in the precepts of ethics can be recognized."
"Similarly, even its giving of thanks, in which it acknowledges the other extreme as the essential Being and counts itself nothing, is its own act which counterbalances the action of the other extreme, and meets the self sacrificing beneficence with a like action."
"That it is being's nature to recollect itself, and that it becomes essence by virtue of this interiorizing, this has been displayed in being itself."
"derived from other and possibly higher spheres."
"According to the difference of content they are distinguished merely in principle, or for us; but according to the difference ofform they are independent and in their relation keep themselves separate and opposed to one another."
", an original action of a cause in regard to appearances, which to that extent is not appearance but in accordance with this faculty intelligible, even though otherwise, as a link in the chain of nature, it must be counted entirely as belonging to the world of sense?"
"For the purely natural drive is by no means a selfish or blameworthy drive; instead, as we shall see in due course, the satisfaction of this drive is itself a duty."
"Kant had a higher regard for dialectic and this is among his greatest merits for he removed from it the semblance of arbitrariness which it has in ordinary thought and presented it as a necessary operation of reason."
"The movementsQf its own externaHzation, its creations in the unresis ting element of its otherness, are torrents of light; in their simplicity, they are at the same time the genesis of its beingfor self and the return from the existence of its momen ts streams of fire destructive of all structured form."
"The second moment contained in the power of the sovereign is that of particularity or of determinate content and its subsumption under the Universal."
"Turned against reason, this understanding behaves in the manner of ordinary common sense, giving credence to the latter's view that truth rests on sensuous reality, that thoughts are only thoughts,"
"Finally, as conscience, it is no longer this continual al ternationof existence being placed in the Self, and vice versa; it knows that its existence as such is this pure certainty of itself."
"Concepts are further divided into contrary and contradictory, a principal division."
"The entire being (the substance, the subsistence) of the moral law and not just the causality of the same, which was the case when the being of the body was posited is therefore conditioned by the intellect."
"The idea guise of an immediate, that is, it is not determined as soul itself, has not comprehended itself as soul, does not have its objective reality within itself; the concept is as a soul that is not yet fully animated."
"The administration of a corporation's affairs by its own supervisors will often be inept, for although they know km nm and have before them their own distinct interests and affairs, they have a less complete grasp of the connection between these and more remote conditions and universal points of view."
"The self identity of cause in its effect is the sublation of its power and negativity, hence a unity which is indifferent to differences of form, that is to say, content."
"Fichte uses the term 'estates' both in the sense of parliamentary estates ('estates of the realm') and that of social groups or classes, but always with reference to particular professions or trades (scholars, public officials, farmers, merchants, etc."
"Should it nevertheless happen that he is killed, then this is something that happens by accident, despite my intention to the contrary; I am not responsible for it."
"Instead, I am talking about the respect they ought to have for the scholar and the artist, even outside their respective offices, as more highly cultivated human beings."
"oIthe thing in Abstraa Right."
"Thus the antinomy of pure reason, which becomes manifest in pure reason's dialectic, is in fact the most beneficial straying into which human reason could ever have fallen, because it ultimately impels us to seek the key to get out of this labyrinth the key which, when found, also uncovers what one did not seek and yet requires, namely an outlook into a higher, unchangeable order of things; we already are in this order of things now, and from now on we can be instructed by determinate precepts to purs our existence in it in conformity with the highest vocati of reason."
"If the free being in question chooses, let us say, then can it prefer for no reason and without any ground that is, without any intelligible ground in a concept?"
"But the immediate idea is life."
"Therefore, not only are these sides of the ratio, and, not determinate quanta, but their ratio also is not a fixed quantum (and not in the sense in which it is not fixed in the case of a and b), is not a fixed quotient but is absolutely variable as quantum."
"(see my Science of Logic, Vol."
"themselves at once suggest concepts."
"This alone squares with the maxim of our re<U+FB02>ective judgement, and, therefore, with a subjective ground that is nevertheless ineradicably bound to the human race."
"It may initially appear that this superficial philosophy is eminendy compatible at least ,vith outward peace and order, in that it never manages to touch the substance of things Sachen or even to suspect its existence; it would thus have no cause to fear police intervention, at least initially, if it were not that the state also contained the need for a deeper education and insight, and demanded that this need be satisfied by science."
"then it would obviously be absurd to say that the crime consisted precisely in the agent's"
"Man, therefore, is always but a link in the chain of natural ends."
"At the same time, as has been remarked, even for ordinary thinking every existence equally determines itself as an other existence, so that there is no existence that remains determined simply as an existence, none which is not outside an existence and therefore is not itself an other."
"Hence in judging its in<U+FB02>uence upon the mind the multitude of its charms (simultaneous or successive) is alone relevant, and so only, as it were, the mass of the agreeable sensation, and it is only by its quantity, therefore, that this can be made intelligible."
"In any case, from the little that I have here adduced it becomes clear that a complete lexicon with all the requisite definitions should be not only possible but even easy to produce."
"The second moment is the movement of the End conceived as passive, and realization conceived as the relation of the End to the wholly formal actuality, hence the idea of the transition itself, or the means, The third moment is, finally, the object, which is no longer in the form of an End directly known by the agent to be his own, but as brought out into the light of day and havingfor him the form of an 'other'."
"The Transcendental Aesthetic Second Metaphysical exposition of the concept of time."
"When this movement is represented as a pathway of knowledge, this beginning with being and the subsequent advance which sublates being and arrives at essence as a mediated term appears to be an activity of cognition external to being and indifferent to its nature."
"For this reason it has been said that there cannot be any refutation of Spinozism for anyone who does not presuppose a commitment to freedom and the independence of a self conscious subject."
"All that the equation dd xy expresses is that is a ratio, and there is no otherwise real meaning to ascribe to dd xy."
"But as soon as something is assumed as a quantum discretum,b the multiplicity of units in it is determined; hence it is always equal to a number."
"The linking is not, therefore, their true absolute connection that would make one determination the element of self identity in the positedness, and the other determination the positedness of this same self identity; on the contrary, the two are supported by a something"
"To this extent, however, their resolution is in a universal which, as the truly absolute concept, is to be grasped as the idea of infinite spirit the spirit whose posited being is the infinite, transparent reality in which it contemplates its creation and, in this creation, itself."
"Works of Spinoza, trans."
"In accordance with this determination, the one and the void are each the reference of negation to negation as of an other to its other: the one is negation in the determination of being; the void, negation in the determination of non being."
"For the specific magnitudes here at issue, therefore, the categories of variables magnitudes, of functions and the like, are merely formal, as we said earlier, because they are still too general to contain the kind of specificity to which the whole interest of differential calculus is directed, nor can this specificity be developed out of it analytically; they are as such simple, insignificant, easy determinations that are rendered difficult by importing into them that which is not in them, in order then to derive it from them, namely the specific determination of differential calculus."
"I Taking something to be true, or the subjective validity of judgment, has the following three stages in relation to conviction (which at the same time is valid objectively):"
"need not cause us to lift a finger."
"Thus although the idea has its reality in a materiality, the latter is not an abstract being standing over against the concept but, on the contrary, it exists only as becoming, as simple determinateness of the concept by virtue of the negativity of the indifferent being."
"To be sure, a few principles that the geometers presuppose are actually analytic and rest on the principle of contradiction; but they alsoa only serve, as identical propositions, for the chain of method and not as principles,b.g., a a, the whole is equal to itself, or (a b) a,.e."
"The critical objection alone is of such a kind that it overturns a theory merely by showing that one assumes on behalf of its assertion something that is nugatory and merely imagined, thereby withdrawing from it the presumed foundation without otherwise wanting to decide anything about the constitution of the object."
"But in so far as he is essentially a particular individual, it is an accident that his death was directly connected with his 'work' for the universal and was the result of it; partly because, if his death was such a result, it is the natural negativity and movement of the individual as a mere existent, in which consciousness does not return into itself and become self consciousness; or partly because, since the movement of what merely exists consists in its being superseded and becoming a being for self, death is the side of diremption in which the attained being.for is something other than the mere existent which began the movement."
"etwas besdzli a is to cancel atif"
"For the latter is the other essential power, and is therefore not destroyed, but merely wronged, by the conscious Spirit."
"Spinoza, Ethics, Part Proposition Corollary."
"netism, for exa ple, is in itself concrete or real, the Understanding degrades it into something lifeless, merely predicating it of another existent thing, rather than cognizing it as the immanent life of the thing, or cognizing its native and unique way of generating and expressing itselfin that thing."
"universality is external but essential to the determination of the singularity which is at the basis of the middle term of induction; such an external is just as much immediately its opposite, the internal."
"We have also pointed out the maxim according to which one has to choose one's profession: not in accordance with inclination but in accordance to duty."
"the concept of substance in the paralogism of simplicity is a pure intellectual concept, which in the absence of conditions of sensible intuition is merely of Object Object a of substantized apperception."
"The will contains (a) the element or of the '!' '"
"Inner sense, by means of which the mind intuits itself, or its inner state, gives, to be sure, no intuition of the soul itself, as an object;h"
"his own time or leap over Rhodes."
"Similarly, a discrete magnitude is immediately only a differentiated many in general which, if it were to have a limit as a many, would be only an aggregate, that is, would be only indeterminately limited; in order for quantum to be determinate, the many must be concentrated into one and thereby be posited as identical with the limit."
"ie not only in a sense opposed to remunerated work, as not being a work the magnitude of which may be judged, exacted, or paid for according to a definite standard, but free also in the sense that, while the mind, no doubt, occupies itself, still it does so without ulterior regard to any other end, and yet with a feeling of satisfaction and stimulation (independent of reward)."
"The Encyclopedic of the Critique of Judgement into the System of the Critique of Pure Reason"
"This is the complete, self closing movement that has arrived at that which made the beginning; what emerges is the same as that from which the departure was made, that is, the finite is restored; the latter has therefore rejoined itself, in its beyond has only found itself again."
"On the contrary, the action is itself this splitting into two, this explici self affirmation and the tablishingoveragainst itself of an alien external reality; that there is su,.ch"
"But even to external reflection it will be a matter of simple consideration that the positive, to start with, is not a simple identity but is rather, on the one hand, opposed to the negative has meaning only in this reference to it and therefore entails the negative in its very concept and, on the other hand, is inherently the self referring negation of mere positedness or of the negative and therefore is itself implicitly the absolute negation."
"Hence nothing is explained, not even the illusion in our teleological judgements, so that the alleged idealism in them is left altogether unsubstantiated."
"The shine of the former was supposed absolutely not to have the foundation of a being: the thing in itself was not supposed to enter into these cognitions."
"its principle of presupposing the unconditioned for everything conditioned."
"This immediacy thus acquires the other significance, namely that in and for itself, in so far as it stands opposed to the concept, it is a nullity."
"If the question concerns the duration of the child's duty of obedience, then the answer is as follows:"
"For the True isJor it the law"
"That is to say, in the latter there stands on the side of the subjective concept the concept that is in process of being intuited in itself by the concept only the determination of universality; cognition only knows itself as apprehension, as the identity of the concept with itself which, for itself, is indeterminate; the filling, that is, the objectivity"
"the material which it employs for that purpose is that which sets the mental powers into a swing that is purposive, ie into a play which is self maintaining and which strengthens those powers for such activity."
"That a stone falls, is truefor consciousness because in its heaviness the stone has in and for itself that essential relation to the earth which is expressed in falling."
"Here, in a concrete sense and in tenus of its content, it consists in the unity of objective freedom (Le. of the universal substantial will) and"
"It is this reflection that, in sublating itself in its determinations and as a movement which as such turns back upon itself, is first truly absolute identity and, at the same time, the determining of the absolute or its modality."
"The type of assurance in a teleological proof of the existence of God Whether a proof is derived from immediate empirical presentation of what is to be proved, as in the case of proof by observation of the object or by experiment, or whether it is derived a priori by reason from principles, what is primarily required of it is that it should not persuade, but convince, or at least tend to convince."
"Consciousness has for its object one which, of its own self, posits its otherness or difference as a nothingness, and in so doing is independent."
"For the infinitesimal calculus permits, even requires, procedures which mathematics must absolutely reject when operating with finite magnitudes, and at the same it treats its infinite magnitudes as if they were finite quanta and insists on applying to them the same procedures which are valid for these; a significant aspect of the formation of this science has been its success in applying to transcendent determinations and their treatment the form of ordinary calculus."
"Nature works mechanically, as mere nature, in producing aggregates, but it works technically, ie artistically, in producing systems, for example, crystals, all sorts of <U+FB02>ower forms, or the internal structure of plants and animals."
"The expression of the will contains' tKef<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>"
"Now it is common to say with respect to the first expression that if I am to take +a (the unit) a times, then I take it not merely a times but also in the manner opposite to it, +a times a; therefore, since the a is plus, I have to take it negatively, and the product is."
"neither belongs itself within the concept of possible experience nor consists of elements of a possible experience."
"consciousness, ie by just the same necessity of the Notion by which being or the immediacy which is the content less object of sensuous consciousness, externalizes itself and becomes the 'I' for consciousness."
"Even the lowest degree of understanding is enough to discover, like those learned theologians, a positive aspect in every action and hence a good reason and intention underlying it."
"The pure understanding is thus in the categories the law of the syn thetic unity of all appearances, and thereby first and originally makes experience possible as far as its form is concerned."
"Thus pure being is immediately nothing."
"Through this syllogism, whose major premise seems so natural and evident, a corresponding number of cosmological ideas are introduced, in accordance with the difference of the conditions (in the synthesis of appearances), insofar as they constitute a series, which pos tulate an absolute totality of these series and thereby put reason into an unavoidable conflict with itself."
"On the contrary, both they and the oceans link human beings together."
"These formal principles serve to ground a necessity which is partly objective and partly subjective, but which also possesses objective validity in part because it is subjective, in so far as these principles determine, through the higher faculties here correlated with them, the corresponding powers of the mind: the faculty of cognition the feeling of pleasure and displeasure the faculty of desire the understanding the power of judgement lawfulness"
"But this occupation of the power of judgment, which lets us feel our own cognitive powers, is not yet interest in the actions and in their morality itself."
"And in fact, if the negative only expressed a subjectively arbitrary abstraction or a determination of external comparison, then it would indeed be for the positive nothing at all, that is, there would be no reference in the positive to such an empty abstraction; but then its determination, that it is a positive, would equally be only external to it."
"Their essence, simple consciousness, is thus the simplicity of absolute difference which isat once no difference."
"In its conflict it has learnt by experience that the 'way of the world' is not as bad as it looked; for its reality is the reality of the universal."
"itself is ,therefore not an enduring being, but in its difference immediately ceases to be something; such a being, however, that is immediately withoutsupport is not an intrz'nsic being, but is.essentiaHy for an other which is the power that absorbs it."
"Through this identity, the objective universality and the external singularity obtain the determinateness, now posited in the disjunctive judgment, which in the hypothetical they possess immediately."
"When such a fallacy has been shown to ground the common argu ment (for the cosmological assertions), the demands of both disputing parties could rightfully be dismissed as being based on no well grounded title."
"Pure mediation is only pure reference, without anything being referred to."
"The something of the measure is indeed itself a quantum, but with the difference that it is the qualitative side determining the merely indifferent, external quantum."
"Guyer/Wood translation, with some modifications."
"A Ation a to morality; and the necessary connection of the hope of being happy with the unremitting effort to make oneself worthy of happiness that has been adduced cannot be cognized through reason if it is grounded merely in nature, but may be hoped for only if it is at the same time grounded on a highest reason, which commands in accordance with moral laws, as at the same time the cause of nature."
"The substance of an author's or inventor's right does not primarily consist in his arbitrarily imposing the condition, on alienating a single copy of his work, that the power which the other person thereby acquires to manufacture such products on his own account as things should not become the other's property, but should remain that of the inventor."
"C. and lasted for approximately years); in this work, see Ak.,."
"to be sought, indeed on these grounds they will even be necessary if a cognition of objects is to come about which rests solely on the synthesis of the representations."
"But this opposition has vanished; the unity remains the element, and the distinctions of the division and of the development in general no longer transgress that unity."
"For wefinallybecome fond of that whose contemplation lets us feel the expanded use of our cognitive powers, a use that is furthered above all by that"
"But this concept as it is for itself in its tn/th may not only be different from our rep ltat Vor;tell lg of it: the two must also differ in their form and shape."
"Now if the first determinations of reflection, identity, diversity, and opposition, have been formulated each as a principle, all the more should the one determination into which they pass over as in their truth, namely contradiction, be grasped and enunciated as a principle: 'All things are in themselves contradictory,' in the sense, moreover, that as contrasted with the other this proposition expresses rather the truth and the essence of things."
"Properly speaking, one should call space not a posi but a to because its parts are possible only in the whole, and not the whole through the parts."
"Natural qualities that are demonstrable a priori, and so reveal their possibility on universal principles without any aid from experience, may involve a technical purposiveness."
"In this sense, of course, it is impossible to know what the thing in itself is."
"But the bond connecting this second with the first is too invasive for the second not to be not equally grasped with the first; thus with Spinoza the attribute is the whole of substance, though as comprehended by the understanding, which is itself a restriction of substance or mode; and so the mode, the insubstantial as such which can be grasped only through an other, constitutes the opposite extreme of substance, the third."
"This, now, is the foundation of the necessity of that agreement between other people's judgements upon the sublime and our own, which we make our own imply."
"But, as the magnitude of the measure has to be assumed as a known quantity, if, to form an estimate of this, we must again have recourse to numbers involving another standard for their unit, and consequently must again proceed mathematically, we can never arrive at a first or fundamental measure, and so cannot get any definite concept of a given magnitude."
"The I posits itself it posits itself in this case only ideally idealiter"
"For in such a case, intellec tual presuppositions and faith on behalf of our practical concern would not be taken from us; only one could not put them forward with the title and pomp of science and rational insight, because real specula tive knowledge can encounter no object anywhere except that of expe rience, and if one transgresses its boundary, then the synthesis that attempts cognitions which are new and independent of experience has no substratum of intuition on which it could be exercised."
", inner necessitation to what one does not do entirely gladly."
"Objectively, this reconciliation applies to the law, which restores and thereby actualizes itselfas valid through the cancellation Aujheben of his law, which is /m"
"is not aware that it is this pure, mediating movement, the mediation seems to, ,)"
"The singular individual is the transition of the category from its Notion to an external reality, the pureschema which is both consciousness, and, since it is a singular individual and an exclusive unit, the pointing to an 'other'."
"The objective significance of the syllogism in which the universal is the middle is that the mediating term, as the unity of the extremes, is essentially a universal."
"When the Dorians discovered his identity, they withdrew."
"If the first is the case, namely the composite persists, then what persists would not be substances, for composition is to these only an accidental relation; but substances are what persists; therefore, what persists is the simple."
"But an entirely different, less physical aspect of this drive will also reveal itself, and to this extent the command that one permit oneself to satisfy this drive only as a means for propagating the species must already be restricted in a preliminary manner so that if this end of propagating the species fails to be achieved by satisfying this drive the responsibility for this failure must at least not be assigned to us."
"The infinite magnitudes of calculus are, therefore, not only comparable, but exist only as terms of comparison, in relation."
"As a result, the situation is reversed."
", also A /B A /B and A /B"
"Yet if one considers it more closely, one finds that the concept of the sum of and contains nothing more than the unification of both numbers in a single one, through which it is not at all thought what this single number is which comprehends the two of them."
"ement of right which occurs, and place its infinity in any infri lOie justice is therefore alto<U+FFFD>ust as it exists for the wiU."
"Real measure dissolved, they must share among them the intervening spaces between the atoms of the solvent, so that, granted a uniform mixture of the liquid"
"The judgement of taste, therefore, depends on our presupposing the existence of a common sense."
"These modes of taking possession contain the progression from the determination of individuality EinzellzeitJ to that of universality."
"Both principles which we have so far considered, the abstract good and the conscience, lack their opposite: the abstract good evaporates into a complete powerlessness which I can endow with any content whatsoever, and subjectivity of spirit becomes no less impoverished in that it lacks any objective significance."
"The best disposition may indeed retain its inner worth, but it does not lead to the realization of reason's end if cognition is incorrect."
"Hence the determination which will be considered in the following paragraph also applies to the particular and further determined content of crime"
"A similar objectivity also appears for the double meaning, of standing opposed to the self subsistent concept yet of also existing in and for itself."
"The moral consciousness, too, is not really in earnest about letting something be made sacred by"
"Hence it follows that the delight does not depend upon a sensation, as with the agreeable, nor upon a definite concept, as does the delight in the good, although it has, for all that, an indeterminate reference to concepts."
"If one assumes that some external cause acts on the substrate of the drive, then there would also arise an efficacious action, directed to some third thing, lying outside this substrate, that is, lying outside the I. Or if the cause in question does not have any power over the substrate of the drive, then nothing at all would come about."
"Therefore the moral law strikes down self conceit."
"For me (I will use this expression for the time being, simply in order to be able to express myself, in spite of the fact that an important remark still has to be made on this subject) all the influences of free beings are determined a priori."
"Properly speaking, an idea signifies a concept of reason, and an ideal the representation of an individual existence as adequate to an idea."
"That earlier objectivity is therefore the immediate itself in immediate mode."
"Rather, sensible feeling, which underlies all our inclination, is indeed the condition of that sensation which we call respect."
"the world of appearance and the world in itself."
"One fails to see, therefore, why one would have to entertain such representations which are not evident in experience, are essentially contradictory on the face of it, and remain uncorroborated otherwise."
", what is it on which I depend and by means of which the synthesis becomes possible, since I here do not have the advantage of looking around for it in the field of experience?"
"An assessment of the facts of the case will be based on empirical circumstances, on testimonies concerning the deed Halldltmg in question and similar intuitive perceptions"
"This in itself of the condition has two sides: one side is its essentiality as essentiality of the ground, while the other is the immediacy of its existence."
"If, therefore, we say: The senses represent objects to us as they appear, but the understanding, as they are, then the latter is not to be taken in a transcendental but in a merely empirical way, signifying, namely, how they must be represented as objects of experience, in the thoroughgoing connectiona of appearances, and not how they might be outside of the relation to possible experience and consequently to sense in general, thus as objects of pure understanding."
"The subject and predicate, as we have just said, are names at first that receive their actual determination only as the judgment runs its course."
"It is solely to the abstraction of its sensuous subject matter that geometry owes its aptitude for a higher scientific reach and the advantage that it has over the collections of information that people are also want to call sciences but have for content only the concrete perceptible material of the senses, and only because of the order that they seek to bring to it do they give any sign of a remote inkling and hint of the requirements of the concept"
"Moreover, the teacher speaks in the name and in the place of the community, but not in that of God, for he himself stands under God, just as the people do, and he, like them, is only a poor sinner in the eyes of God."
"For if I wanted to think of an understanding that itself intuited (as, say, a divine understanding, which would not represent given objects, but through whose represen tation the objects would themselves at the same time be given, or pro duced), then the categories would have no significance at all with regard to such a cognition."
"In the latter case, however, it is necessary, and consequently it is also a duty, to avail oneself of the proofs required by the state."
"In so far as mention can be made here of intuiting and thinking, it makes a difference whether something or nothing is being intuited or thought."
"For if the categories did not serve in this way, it would not become clear why everything that may ever come before our senses must stand under the laws that arise a priori from the understanding alone."
"In order that it should appear in consciousness in its own ptopernature, this would certainly have to corne about from its side, rather than from the side of consciousness."
"A. A. A. A. Deduction of an object of our activity as such First theorem"
"If the movement of a body is considered as effect, the cause of this effect is then a propulsive force; but it is the same quantum of movement which is present before and after the propulsion, the same concrete existence which the propulsive body contained and which it communicated to the one propelled; and what it communicated, it lost in equal measure."
"But this also is sublated; this in itself is only something posited; immediate existence is indifferent to being a condition."
"This is so partly because this faculty has been limited to reproduction, and partly because it has been believed that the senses do not merely afford us impressions but also put them together, and produce images of objects, for which without doubt something more than the receptivity of impressions is required, namely a function of the synthesis of them."
"This passing over appears as an external doing."
"Both the nature of crime and the criminal's own will require that the infringement for which he is responsible should be cancelled arifirehoben."
"But to claim that this situation is the one which truly corresponds to the Idea is to proceed too blindly and super ficially."
"He cannot pretend to have made the genesis of those two kingdoms intelligible independently of the condition of final causes."
"In older legislations, there are likewise numerous rules concerning loyalty and honesty which are out of keeping with the nature of law, because they apply entirely to the realm of inwardness."
"All that can belong to a creature with regard to hope for this share would be the consciousness of his tested attitude, so that, on the basis of the progress that he has thus far made from the worse to the morally better, and of the immutable resolve which has thereby become famili to him, he may hope for a further uninterrupted continuati of this progress, however far his existen may extend, even beyond this life; and thus he can Sittengesetz here, moralisches Gesetz repeatedly above."
"What is preserved is not the vanishing: the vanishing is itself actual and is bound up with the work and vanishes with it; the negative itself perishes along with the positive whose neg ti ve"
"Essence beholds only its own selfin its being for self; in this externaHzation of itself it stays only with itself:"
"For since bothJaws have within them the moment of consciousness, difference is developed within the laws themselves, and this constitutes their movement and their own peculiar life."
"The equilibrium of these two aspects is an import ant factor in the history of the state."
"The sight of it is horrible, and one must have stored one's mind in advance with a wealth of ideas, if such an intuition is to attune it to a feeling which is itself sublime sublime because the mind has been incited to abandon sensibility, and employ itself upon ideas involving a higher purposiveness."
"Thus these higher principles alone provide the concept, which contains the condition and as it were the exponents for a rule in gen eral, while experience provides the case which stands under the rule."
"Therefore that unconditioned causality as well as our power thereof, freedom, and with it a being (I myself) that belongs to the world of sense, has not merely indeterminately and problematically been thought as nonetheless also belonging to the intelligible world"
"I ought never to act against my conviction."
"But these differences whic I posit are nevertheless also mine, the determinations apply to me, and the ends to which I am impelled belong to me."
"So the logic also has returned in the absolute idea to this simple unity which is its beginning; the pure immediacy of being, in which all determination appears at first as extinguished or removed by abstraction, is the idea that through mediation, that is, the sublation of mediation, has come to the likeness corresponding to it."
"Here we will attend only to the following circumstance: my drive is limited, and as a result of this limitation I posit an object."
"There is no longer any distinction between the finite human being and Brahman; instead, every difference Dijfrrenz has disappeared in this universality."
"This is an important opening position."
"Thus, evil as well as good has its origin in the will, and the will in its concept is both good and evil."
"The relationship of self consciousness to them is equally simple and clear."
"Second, it is simple determinateness as the qualitative moment of the sides of the ratio."
"The moral consciousness attributes its imperfection to the fact that in it morality has a positive relation to Nature and sense, because it holds that an essential moment in morality is that it should have a negative, and only a negative, relation to them."
"The good is realized freedom, the absolute and ultimate end of the world."
"So the simple minded, and, for the most part"
"The latter demanded that the true objects be merely intelligible, and asserted an intuition through pure understanding not accompanied by any senses, which in their opinion only confused it."
"In drei Gesprachen and."
"It follows that each of the determinations established in the preceding exposition of the concept has immediately dissolved itself and has lost itself in its other."
"But it does so in another substance and it is now power with reference to an other; it thus appears as cause but is cause only by virtue of this appearing."
"In fact, they contradict .the"
"How they manage to do this remains inexplicable;"
"I follow Natorp's suggestion to read als for ist also."
"Emancipation from superstition is called enlightenment; for although this term applies also to emancipation from prejudices generally, still superstition deserves pre eminently (in sensu eminenti) to be called a prejudice."
"The attributes also which by means of it we ascribe to the being in question may, objectively used, involve a covert anthropomorphism."
"The state is concerned only with those aspects of individuals which are objectively recognizable and which have been tried and tested, and it must pay all the more attention to such aspects in the case of the second section of the Estates, because this section is rooted in interests and activities which are directed towards the particular, and in which contingency, mutability, and arbitrary will have the right to express themselves."
"In all of this they proceed quite correctly, as long as they do not overstep their appointed bound aries, namely those of nature."
"In his work, he has placed himselfaltogetherin the dement of universality, in the quality less void of being."
"If we compare the two expressions, then the one, the infinite series, no longer represents the fraction as a ratio but represents it in its aspect as a quantum which is an aggregate of magnitudes which are added to each other, as an amount."
"In a cognition that thoroughly agrees with the laws of the understanding there is also no error."
"The Notion of Spirit which had emerged for us as we entered the sphere of religion, viz."
"Everyone, however, ought to acquire such insight."
"If one presents children with reasons, it is left to them to decide whether to accept these or not, and thus everything is made to depend on their caprice."
"Indeed, he even takes the result of this dialectic to be simply and solely an infinite nothingness, the result being that the synthesis is again lost, lost also to the infinite unity of reason, and lost with it"
"is the spiritual judgement complete."
"From a sensuous being it turned into a universal; but this universal, since it originates in the sensuous, is essentially conditioned by it, and hence is not truly a self identical universality at all, but one aj licted with an opposition; for this reason the universaHty'splits into the extremes of singular individuality and universality, into the One of the properties, and the Also of the 'free matters'."
"Should, however, the observer do so"
"On the one hand, subjective reflection, al nature of the individual and the univer sal,<U+FFFD>"
"In this complex, each of these magnitudes is posited simply as connected with the others, as a function of the other magnitudes each carrying, as one could say, a plus in it."
"That habit should be called material thinking, a ntingent"
"But the gradualness concerns merely the externality of the alteration, not its qualitative moment; the preceding quantitative relation, though infinitely near to the succeeding one, is still another qualitative existence."
"The sublime is what pleases immediately through its resistance to the interest of the senses."
"the latter on account ofthelr negative nature"
"The Doctrine of Being If, impatient with this talk of an abstract beginning, one should say that the beginning is to be made, not with the beginning, but directly with the fact itself, well then, this subject matter is nothing else than that empty being."
"For this reason, the functions and powers of the state cannot be private property."
"Even the moral law itself in its solemn majesty is exposed to this endeavor to fend off respect for it."
":,tions which most tarnishes the Roman legal code, and this offence against the most vulnerable and innermost life of ethics is one of the most important moments which enable us to understand the world historical character of the Romans and their tendency towards legal formalism."
"I assume that the objects, or what is the same thing, the experience in which alone they can be cognized (as given objects) conforms to those concepts, in which case I immediately see an easier way out of the difficulty, since experience itself is a kind of cognition requiring the understanding, whose rule I have to presuppose in myself before any object is given to me, hence a priori, which rule is expressed in concepts a priori, to which all objects of experience must therefore necessarily conform, and with which they must agree."
", that in a triangle two sides together are always greater than the third, are never derived from general concepts of line and triangle, but rather are derived from intuition and indeed derived a priori with apodictic certainty."
"This is a comforting remark, which gives reason courage again; for on what else could it rely, if it, which is called to do away with all errors, were itself ruined, without any hope for peace and tranquil possession?"
"But the territory upon which its realm is established, and over which it exercises its legislative authority, is still always confined to the complex of the objects of all possible experience, taken as no more than mere phenomena, for otherwise legislation by the understanding in respect of them is unthinkable."
"Parmenides held fast to being and was the most consistent, since he also said of nothing that it absolutely is not; only being is."
"In this case, however, what we have to think is supposed to be something actual, something that constitutes the essence of the I."
"but magnitudes generated from moments."
"The same typic guards also against the mysticism concerning practical reason, which turns what served only as a symbol into a schema,.e., bases the application of moral concepts on actual and yet not sensible intuitions (of an invisible kingdom of God) and strays into the transcendent."
"But the ground and ultimate truth of these institutions is the spirit, which is their universal end and known object Gegenstatzd."
"These distinctions are those between formal contract and real contract, between ownership and p<U+FFFD>d., <U+FFFD>"
"Nevertheless, the distinction between these different curves is defined purely quantitatively, that is, in such a way that the only relevant factor is a quantitative distinction which relates to their coefficients alone, to their purely empirical dimen sions."
"But organic being that has returned into itselfis completely indifferent towards an other, its existence is a simple universality, and it denies to observation any lasting sensuous differencE$ or, what is the same thing, displays its essential determinateness only as thejlux of inert determinatenesses."
"Does he do his duty?'"
"The decisive point, however, is that my duty to act in the latter case is based not only upon my obligation to preserve my own life, but also on my obligation simply not to tolerate something that is obviously prohibited by the moral law: namely, my own murder or that of some other person."
"Yet this I is no more an intuition than it is a concept of any object; rather, it is the mere form of consciousness,d which accompanies both sorts of representations and which can elevate them to cognitions only insofar as something else is given in intuition, which provides the material for the representation of an object."
"First of all, and this is the most important point of all and one that I had good reasons for stressing earlier: where the will comes upon the scene, indeed, wherever the I comes upon the scene at all, there the force of nature is completely at an end."
"On this account it cannot merit any delight on the part of reason."
"He is a coward in comparison with the virtuous person; but in comparison with the abject person who subjects himself to shame and slavery simply in order to prolong for a few more years the miserable feeling of his own existence he is a hero."
"separable individuality of its own, the Notion of rational self consciDusness which has its existence in the general mass but is nDt yet present there qua NotiDn."
"Qf Reason, which is engaged in observing the self."
"But it equally is pure essence, its being the simple immanent reflection; it is because it is."
"more precisely, it is the concept of the subject matter; it is only in the concept that something has actuality, and to the extent that it is different from its concept, it ceases to be actual and is a nullity; the side of tangibility and of sensuous self externality belongs to this null side."
"The predicate, for its part, has thereby passed over from the first universality to absolute determinateness and made itself equal to the subject."
"On demonstrations.a Only an apodictic proof, insofar as it is in tuitive, can be called a demonstration."
"Sometimes this results in states splitting up and resolving themselves into lesser states, sometimes one state absorbs other smaller states and endeavours to build up a larger unit."
",inasmuch as it combines the <U+FFFD>"
"The transition of the relation of substantiality occurs through its own immanent necessity and is nothing more than the manifestation of itself, that the concept is its truth, and that freedom is the truth of necessity."
"In and for itself the Thing is self identical, but this unity with itself is disturbed by other Things."
"and what is contrary to duty Perfect and imperfect"
"Although concrete existence is the immediacy that has proceeded from ground, it still does not have form explicitly posited in it; inasmuch as it determines and informs itself, it is appearance; and in developing this subsistence that otherwise only is a reflection into other into an immanent reflection, it becomes two worlds, two totalities of content, one determined as reflected into itself and the other as reflected into other."
"I regard them as myself and myself as them."
"and this constitutes the absolute identity of the two substances posited as two."
"The general level of insight now is altogether more educated, its curiosity more awake, and its judgement more swiftly reached, so that the feet of those who will carry you out are already at the door."
"All willing that is actually perceivable, however, which is the kind of the willing that is required here, is necessarily a determinate willing, in which something is willed."
"Only in its consummation is it the absolute."
"Concrete existence own, with properties, in this way demonstrating that the abstraction of the thing as a pure thing in itself is an untrue determination."
"What is objective is supposed to subsist through itself, without any help from what is subjective and independently of it."
"To be sure, the drive belongs to the I, but it is not the I."
"I.e., in the transcendent: im berschwenglichen."
"The absolute totality of this series would be given only when and if the regress could attain to simple parts."
"Weisheitslehre indeed, such a doctrine is impossible as such, inasmuch as wisdom should be considered more of an art than a science; instead, like all philosophy, ethics is Wissenschaftslehre."
"a Sachen Erg;riindung Schein Erdkunde (i.e., geography)"
"In other words, whatever kind of grounds there may be for judging an ideal, there must be some underlying idea of reason according to determinate concepts, by which the end underlying the internal possibility of the object is determined a priori."
"Thus to the cosmological question about the magnitude of the world, the first and negative answer is: The world has no first beginning in time and no outermost boundary in space."
"The subject of the syllogism has not returned in such a quality to its concept but is conceived only in its externality; the immediacy constitutes the basis of the connection and hence the mediation; to this extent, the singular is in truth the middle."
"The absolute relation an immediacy."
"Kant objects to infinite wholes being regarded as a maximum, the completed aggregation of a given unit."
"The realization that such a difference is a necessary one is the only thing which can save philosophy from the shameful decline into which it has fallen in our times."
"If it is assumed that one of them is at one time greater than the other and stood in relation to the smaller precisely as greater, then what was said above applies, namely that the greater would gain absolute predominance and the smaller would vanish; it is as something vanishing, lacking support, that the latter is being posited, and nothing is altered in this determination by supposing that the vanishing happens only gradually, or that it decreases only as much as the other increases, for the one force that increases is destroyed together with the other that decreases, since it is what it is only to the extent that the other is what it is."
"Its closest complement, the negative judgment, would have to be brought in at least in equal measure."
"To the concepts of all, many, and one there is opposed the con cept of that which cancels everything out,.e."
"A person who is looking at the goal of his action does not see himself, for the goal in question lies outside that person."
"The determination of reflection, on the contrary, has for this ground immanent reflectedness."
"The refutation consists in pointing out its defect; and it is defective because it is only the universal or principle, is only the be."
"For this universality I use the expression universal validity, which denotes the validity of the reference of a representation, not to the cognitive faculties, but to the feeling of pleasure or displeasure for every subject."
"But this principle does not objectively determine the nature of freedom as a form of causality: it converts, and converts with no less validity than if it did so determine the nature of that freedom, the rule of actions according to that idea into a command for everyone."
"It is a duty to base one's choice of an estate not upon inclination, but rather upon one's best conviction concerning the estate that is most precisely appropriate for one, taking into account the quantity of one's forces, one's education, and those external conditions over which one has some control."
", The Family keeps away from thedead this dishonouringofhim by unconscious appetites and abstract entities, and puts its own action in their place, and weds the blood relation to the bosom of the earth, to the elemental imperishahle individuality."
"If the former does not step outside self consciousness, the latter certainly has its content in the element of pure self consciousness, but in thought, not in Notions, in pure consciousness, not in pure self consciousness."
"Here our gratification is not excited by a knave or a fool getting a rebuff: for, even on its own account, the latter tale told with an air of seriousness would of itself be enough to set a whole table into roars of laughter; and the other matter would ordinarily not be worth a moment's thought."
"One feels benevolent toward others, but one does not esteem and respect their rights."
"The state is his judge, not I nor any other private person."
"And so it will continue to be until one yawning grave devours them all just and unjust, there is no distinction in the grave and hurls them back into the abyss of the aimless chaos of matter from which they were first drawn they that were able to believe themselves the final end of creation."
"(On the contrary, the word of God quite pressly distinguishes its revelations from the utterances of nature and of natural man.)"
"Such a simple manoeuver of abstraction can be countered, with equal ease, simply by pointing to the empirical concrete existence in which that abstraction itself is only a something, has a determinate existence."
"The good is in general"
"Remark Chemical matters are the most characteristic examples of such measures, which are moments of measure and receive their determination solely in relating to other moments."
"But the two essential moments of the process, neutralization on the one hand and dissolution and reduction on the other, since they too are bound together in one and the same process and the union blunting the tension of the extremes is also a separation into these, constitute on account of the still underlying externality two diverse sides; the extremes that are separated in that same process are other than the objects or matters uniting in it; in so far as the former proceed from it again as non indifferent, they must turn outwards; their renewed neutralization is a process other than the one that took place in the first."
"But the truth is that it is not the material given by intuition and representation which must be validated as the real in contrast to the concept '"
"above (bottom of page)."
"We are in the presence of selfconsciousness in a new shape, a consciousness which, as the infinitude of consciousness or as its own pure movement, is aware of itself as essential being, a being which thinks or is a free selfconsciousness."
"In the essence we are considering here, individuality has the meaning of self consciousness in general, not of a particular, contingent consciousness."
"Quantum is indifferent determinateness posited as sublated, that is to say, determinateness as limit, one which is just as much no determinateness, which continues in its otherness and in it, therefore, remains identical with itself."
"That I subordinate everything that limits me (or, which means the same, everything that lies within my sensible world) to my absolute final end"
"Consequently, the cause has indeed an effect and is at the same time itself effect; and the effect not only has a cause but is itself also cause."
"Otherwise he is merely a member of the series of those who transmit his trade."
"Jl.!', this constitutes deception. ."
"Further, this original essence is not merely the content of the End,ut is in itself the reality as well, which otherwise has the appearance of being a given material of the action, of being a reality found to begin with, which is to be shaped by the action."
"Consequently the identity is, for its part, not realized; the content of law is not identical but indifferent, diversified."
"In connecting itself to itself infinitely, that is, as the posited negation of negation, the one is the mediation by which it repels itself as its absolute (that is, abstract) otherness (the many) from itself, and in thus negatively connecting itself to this, its non being, it sublates it and is in it precisely only the connection to itself."
"Then each of those two concepts was subsequently to be united with what is commanded by the moral law (which is only possible on terms of freedom) and a religion was to be arrived at in this way."
"First of all, with respect to the category of alterability which is held as so important and which covers the magnitudes connected with those functions, such magnitudes should not be assumed from the start to be alterable in the sense in which the numbers and are in the fraction that is, because and and and other numbers ad infinitum, can be put in their place without the value of the fraction being altered."
"In this sphere of by contingent circumstances whose variety gives rise to the development of natural physical and mental which are already unequal in themselves particularity, these differences manifest themselves in every direction and at every level, and, in conjunction with other contingent and arbitrary circumstances, necessarily result in inequalities in the resources and skills of individuals."
"proof Experience is an empirical cognition,.e., a cognition that detennines an object!"
"Since these moments cannot as yet carry the significance of being made into Ends opposed to the stethicaLorder, they signify here, it is true, no more than what they immediately are, and the goal which they strive to attain is the ethical Substance; but since in our times that form of these moments is more,familiar in which they appear after consciousness has lost its ethical life and, in the search for it, repeats those forms, they may be represented more in terms of this sort."
"Yet it is not one to be abstracted from these conditions, but, on the contrary, it is only possible on a rational principle in the judging of the object."
"Ci the Critique of Pure Reason, A. tze."
", why I also did not explica beforehand"
"All consciousness arises from this discovery."
"In the first case, we are dealing with the re<U+FB02>ective, in the second case, with the determining power of judgement."
"For otherwise the judgement that would be determined by reference to such an end would be grounded upon heteronomy, instead of being grounded upon autonomy and being free, as befits a judgement of taste."
"This negative reference of the one to itself is repulsion."
"Yet in the sensible intuition in which reality (e.g., motion) is given, there are conditions (opposed directions), from which one had abstracted in the concept of motion in general, that make pos sible a conflict, which is certainly not a logical one, that produces a zero out of that which is entirely positive; and one could not say that all reality is in agreement just because no conflict a is to be found among its concepts."
"I is an individual but only that it be an individual as such or in general, not that it be the determinate individual A or or, etc."
"The former would be the empiricism of the critique of taste, the latter its rationalism."
"Any such socalled first cause is to be regarded as no more than an occasion, an external stimulus, of which the inner spirit of the event had no need, or could have The absolute relation used a countless number of others, in order to make its first appearance, to give itself a first breath and announce itself."
"As for the vulgar refutation that opposes to thinking, as Diogenes did, sensuous consciousness and in this latter believes that it finds the truth, this we must leave to itself; but in so far as dialectic sublates ethical determinations, we must have confidence in reason that it will know how to reinstate them, but reinstate them in their truth and in the consciousness of their right, though also of their limitations."
"This seemingly only relative smallness contains nothing empirical"
", req rements of the storical vie oint are fuifi:lkd."
"Such a universal, like 'good,' 'fitting,' 'right,' etc., has an ought for its ground, and contains at the same time the correspondence of existence; it is not the ought or the genus by itself, but this correspondence which is the universality that constitutes the predicate of the apodictic judgment."
"It is the same opposition as that of positive and negative, but it is such as an inverted world."
"Finally and thirdly, (in regard to theology) we have to consider every a The first edition reads the psychological. ."
"From the other side, since the subject was equally to be taken as a universal, and since in the negative judgment the predicate, which as against that subject is the singular, expanded into particularity; moreover, since now the negation of this determinateness is equally the purification of the universality contained in the predicate, this judgment also says: 'the universal is the universal.'"
"The determinateness of the intensive magnitude is to be considered, therefore, from two sides."
"The object of the moral law,.e., that in which it wants its end to be presented, is by no means anything individual, but is reason as such; in a certain sense, the moral law has itself as its object."
"It is being in and for itself absolute in itselfness; since it is indifferent to every determinateness of being, otherness and reference to other have been sublated."
"Since the Substance of the individual, the World Spirit itself, has had the patience to pass through thes.e shapes over the long passage of time, and to take upon itself the enormous labour of worJd history, in which it embodied in each shape as much of its entire content as that shape was capable of holding, and since it could not have attained consciousness of itself by any lesser effort,"
"The spread of culture is thus the end of both nature and of reason."
"Hegel is once again exploiting the etjmological affinity of words to suggest a semantic affinitj'."
"Nevertheless it is valid for the employment of our cognitive faculties according to their peculiar structure;"
"Second, as condition, being is now posited as that which it essentially is, namely as a moment and consequently as the being of an other, and at the same time as the in itself of an other; it is in itself but only through the negation of itself, namely through the ground and through its self sublating and consequent presupposing reflection; the in itself of being is thus only something posited."
"In consequence of this concept, thinking proceeds from one thing to another, and one can infer from an effect, as such, to a cause or from a known cause to an effect."
"The inner is determined as the form of reflected immediacy or of essence over against the outer as the form of being; the two, however, are only one identity."
"Similarly, in the state, as the objectivity of the concept of reason, legal responsibility die gerichtliche Zureclzlllmg must not stop at what the individual considers to be in conformity with his reason or otherwise, or at his subjective insight into rightness or wrongness, good or evil, or at what he may require in order to satisfY his conviction."
"ment which strips oftheir significance all those moments which are supposed to count as the true being and as actual members of the whole, and is equally this nihilistic game which it plays with itself."
"This spring certainly contains within itself the ground of a particular 'immediately as such.'"
"In this situation, it may either experience force in general, or it may be forced to sacrifice or do something as a condition of retaining some possession or' positive bemg, thereby s<U+FFFD>ftering coerc."
"Consciousness begins with sensible intuition, and the latter is thoroughly determinate."
"Properly speaking, I am the author of this deed."
"But now the will is supposed to exercise causality, and indeed, an immediate causality upon my body; and the body as an instrument, that is, the articulated body die Artikulation extends only as far as this immediate causality of the will extends."
"It can further be argued, if the offending expression is treated as an injuriolls act, that it is not an act at all, but only opinion and thought on the one hand and talk on the other."
"When consciousness feels this violence, its anxiety may well make it retreat from the truth, and strive to hold on to what it is in danger of losing."
"Thus one is compelled to admit that a teleological judgement is grounded in an a priori principle and would be impossible without such a principle, although we only discover the purpose of nature in judgements of this sort through experience and could never become aware without experience that things of this kind are even possible."
"The absolutely necessary only is because it is; it otherwise has neither condition nor ground."
"As Spirit thatknows what it is, it does not exist before, and nowhere at all, till after the completion of its work of compelling its imperfect 'shape' to procure for its consciousness the 'shape' of its essence, and in this way to equate its se(fconsciousness with its consciousness."
"The 'First to the Critique of Judgement."
"On the contrary, the demand for this dissolution can only be directed to the Spirit of culture itself, in order that it return out of its confusion to itself as Spirit, and win for itself a still higher consciousness."
"In that case, however, according to the elucidations provided earlier (see above, pp."
"The handsome warrior is indeed the glory of his particular nation, but he is a corporeal individuality in which are swallowed up the fulness and seriousness of meaning and the inner character of the Spirit which bears the particular life, the demands, the needs, and customs of his nation."
"I call it the pure apperception, in order to dis tinguish it from the empirical one, or also the original apperception, since it is that self consciousness which, because it produces the repre sentation I think, which must be able to accompany all others and Whether the representations themselves are identical, and whether therefore one could be thought through the other analytically, does not come into con sideration here."
"something must have preceded (e.g., the warmth of the sun) on which this has followed in accordance with a constant law, though with out experience, to be sure, I could determinately cognize neither the ori cause from the effect nor the effect from the cause"
"whatever assumes the form ofessentiality over against it, is instead dissolved in it in its thinking, its existence, and its action and is at its mercy."
"These two Forces exist as independent essences; but their existence is a movement of each towards the other, such that their being is rather a pure positedness or a being that is posited by an other, ie their being has really the significance of a sheer vanishing."
"and ethics, which are usually regarded as roughly synonymous, are taken here in essentially distinct senses."
"It thus stands in a relatiollship to the good, a relationship whereby the good ought to be its substantial character, whereby it ought to make the good its end and fulfil it just as it is only in the subjective will that the good for its part has the means of entering into actuality."
"This I will call the hypothetical use of reason."
"If human beings are to exercise a mutual influence upon one another, then, prior to anything else, their legal relationship has to be assured."
"istent conscioilsnessimmediatelymakes"
"In this faculty judgement does not find itself subjected to a heteronomy of laws of experience as it does in the empirical judging of things in respect of the objects of such a pure delight it gives the law to itself, just as reason does in respect of the faculty of desire."
"Dasein of freedom which was right is determined in the reflection of self consciousness as the good; the third stage, present here il."
"I From this it follows immediately that all things in the world are sim ple beings, that composition is only an external state of these beings, and that even though we can never put these elementary substances completely outside this state of combination and isolate them, reason must still think of them as the primary subjects of all composition and hence think of them prior to it as simple"
"Life, or organic nature, is the stage of nature where the concept comes on the scene, but as a blind concept that does not comprehend itself, that is, is not thought; only as self aware and as thought does it belongs to spirit."
"In Spinozism, for instance, precisely the mode is as such untrue while substance alone is what truly is; everything is supposed to be reduced to substance, and this is then a sinking of all content into an only formal unity void of content."
"There is no efficacious acting upon nature simply for the sake of nature; the ultimate end of acting efficaciously upon nature is always human beings."
"Magnitude is the determination that must be thought only through a judgment that has quantity (judicium commune e);"
"Accordingly, when they point out that this matter has already been accomplished by them, or, if it has not, offer and furnish their assistance, then this consciousness has really left the position they believe it to occupy; it is its own action and its own effort thatconstitllteitsinterest in the 'matter in hand', and when.the othe.rsbecomeawarethat this was really the;'matter inhand,' then they feel theyhavebeen deceived."
"It docs indeed suspect their unessentiality, and to save them from the danger thrc ltening them it resorts to the sophistry of asserting to be true what it has"
"Or, again, if the abstract Idea of the organism is truly expressed in those three moments, merely because they are not static and are only moments of the Notion and of movement, the organism, on the other hand, as a structured shape, is not exhaustively dealt with in the three specific systems into which it is analysed by anatomy."
"(das) Moment provided that the will is lawful for pure reason, then its power in carrying out its aims may be what it may, and a nature may or may not actually arise according to these maxims of the legislation of a possible nature, the critique that investigates whether and how reason can be practical,.e."
"Everyone who has elevated himself to absolute non belief in the authority of the communal conviction of his age has a duty of conscience to establish a learned public."
"In the infinite, in the beyond of the limit, only a new limit arises which has the same fate, namely, that as finite it must be negated."
"The idea of cognition alterations in dreams and presentiments, and indwells the brain, the heart, the liver, and so forth."
"Each is thus self subsistent unity existing for itself."
"International Law Das iiuflere"
"The various considerations which are relevant to punishment as a phenomenon"
"a content posited by the form itself and therefore adequate to it."
"It is the purified soul which, in this purity, is directly only essence and is one with essence."
"The above consciousness, on the other hand, has put its merely individual aspect behind it, this mediation is finished and complete, and only because this is so, is this consciousness immediate self consciousness of the ethical sub stance."
"The review, which appeared in Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek (vol."
"All considerations of mere utility, externality, and the like must therefore be excluded from a philosophical treatment of this subject."
"That the self identical divides itself into two means, therefore, just aswellthat"
"But further, we must not for that reason abstract from the singularity of the subject; purified of such a singularity, the subject would be only a universal, whereas the predicate entails precisely this, that the concept of the subject ought to be posited with reference to its singularity."
"Now if all crime, even without taking account of the physical consequences regarding the agent, is by itself punishable.e., involves forfeiture of happiness (at least in part)"
"It is sublating reference to itself; in that reference, it first sublates the negative"
"Nevertheless, thanks to the conditions of the logical use of our under standing, it is still unavoidable for us to abstract out, as it were, that which can change in the existence of a substance while the substance re mains, and to consider it in relation to what is really persistent and fun damental;a thus this category also stands under the title of relations, but more as their condition than as itself containing a relation."
"(as may even be the case with myself as a mechanical body or living entity)."
"But, on the other hand, here the basis for an error of subrepti (vitium subreptionis) and, as it were, for an optical illusion always lies in the self consciousness of what one does, as distinguished from what one senses, an illusion that even the most tested person cannot completely avoid."
"Tecum habita, et naris"
"Here a new phenomenon of human reason shows itself, namely a wholly natural antithetic, for which one does not need to ponder or to lay artificial snares, but rather into which reason falls of itself and even unavoidably; and thus it guards reason against the slumber of an imag ined conviction, such as a merely one sided illusion produces, but at the same time leads reason into the temptation either to surrender itself to a skeptical hopelessness or else to assume an attitude of dogmatic stub bornness, setting its mind rigidly to certain assertions without giving a fair hearing to the grounds for the opposite."
"For, the happiness that arises from the consciousness of virtue in life was elevated above everything by Epicurus as well as the Stoics; and Epicurus was not so low minded in his practical precepts as one might infer from the principles of his theory, which he used for explanation and not for action, or as the precepts were interpreted by many who were misled by his use of the expression lu for satisfaction."
"(see below, ff.), so that the latter quality lies in the particular kind of external use to which the thing is put, and is distinct and separable from the use to which the thing was immediately destined."
"of itselfas a particular individual."
"The content itselfwhich we have to consider has partly been met with already as the idea of the unhappy' aJ;lo the 'beljeving' consciousness; but in the fonner, itbas the character of a content produced from consciousness for which Spirit yearns, and in which Spirit cannot be satiated or find rest, because it is not yet in itseljits own content, or is not the Substance of it."
"this relation is possible in two different ways."
"it is the kind of answer which is sanctioned in the sciences."
"Literally, 'verified': bew hren."
"The justification for using the expression 'being for itself' for that concept would depend on showing that the representation associated with the expression corresponds to the concept So indeed it appears to do."
"In the English legal system, it is left to the insight or arbitrary will of the prosecutor to categorize an act in terms of its specific criminal character (e.g. as murder or manslaughter), and the court cannot determine otherwise if it finds his conclusion incorrect."
"Although this world has come into being through individuality, it is for self consciousness immediately an alienated world which has the form of a fixed and solid reality over against it."
"I am permitted to care for myself only because and only insofar as I am a tool of the moral law; but every other human being is also a tool of the moral law."
"Bewegungsgriinde and the element"
"I could turn immediately to a synthetic systematic statement of the formal conditions for the morality of our actions."
"If, then, the community is that substance conscious of what it actually does, the other side has the form of immediate substance or substance that simply is."
"To generalize somethin means to think it. '"
"Empirical psychology must thus be entirely banned from metaphysics, and is already excluded by the idea of it."
"These different aspects are accordingly the various powers within the state with their corresponding tasks and functions, through which the universal continually produces itself."
"Now the categorical judgment has for predicate such a universality as in it the subject possesses its immanent nature."
"To say that they have no reality, means, in general, nothing else than that they lack truth."
"I do not, however, regard my child as a fully cultivated moral being; instead, I regard my child as someone who first has to be cultivated, and this is precisely how my child is given to me by virtue of my duty to educate him."
"But should not the young, at least, who are entrusted to academic in struction, be warned about writings of that sort, and be protected from premature acquaintance with such dangerous propositions, until their power of judgment has matured or"
"The chief moments of the physico theological proof we are thinking of are the following:"
"I, as a thinking being, am the absolute subject of all my possible a I think, therefore I am."
"those im.aginative representations."
"Chapter On the Ground of the Distinction A sense, and is entirely empty of content, even though it may still contain the logical function for making a concept out of whatever sort of data there are."
"Any such alleged contradiction would not be there at all if, for example, political institutions were set up at the right time in accordance with ideas, and if crude concepts, crude just because they are drawn from experience, had not usurped the place of ideas thus thwarting all good intentions.'"
"Even the abstract universal is as such, when considered conceptually, that is, in its truth, not just anything simple, but is, as abstract, already posited afflicted by a negation."
"In this difference the underlying quantum does not suffer any alteration; the difference is only an external form."
"gence and legal The institutions which prevent this class from adopting the isolated position of an aristocracy and from using its education and skill as arbitrary means"
"Consequently, although this cognition transforms the objective world into concepts, what it gives to it in accordance with conceptual determinations is only the form; as for the object in its singularity, in its determinate determinateness, this it must find; the cognition is not yet self determining."
"Every possible concept of an end is therefore directed toward the satisfaction of a natural drive."
"Why this Critique is titled a critique not of pure practical reason but simply of practical reason as such, although its parallelism with the critique of speculative reas seems to require the former on this the treatise provides sufficient information."
"(but then the two forces merely join in a movement externally, as in the parallelogram of forces, and the unity of the concept, the nature of the thing itself, is consequently done away with), or, since each relates to the other qualitatively by virtue of the concept, neither can attain in face of the other the indifferent independent subsistence which a more supposedly imparts to it."
"On the amphiboly of concepts of reflection inner, for the very reason that relational concepts absolutely presuppose given things and are not possible without these."
"This alone is the speculative in act, and only the expression of this move ent is a speculative exposjtion."
"right in this way, everything depends on the kind of content which it gives to itself."
"Now I discover a paralogism in the fact that the sim ple in the abstract is entirely different from the simple in the objectb and that the I, which taken in the first sense comprises no manifold within itself, if taken in the second sense, in which it signifies the soul itself, can be a very complex concept, namely containing under itself and designating quite a lot."
"This abstract result is elucidated by the exposition of its concrete genesis which contains the nature of the concept but had to precede its treatment."
"Duty is no longer the universal that stands over against the self; on the contrary, it is known to have no validity when thus separated."
"It is nevertheless a preparation for virtue; it prepares the ground for it, and when morality comes upon the scene it finds that half the work liberation from the bonds of sensibility has already been accomplished."
"The more true consequences from a given concept, the more indication of its objective reality."
"is to assume on his part a passive relationship which is unsatisfactory and meaningless."
"A concept is either an empirical or a pure concept, and the pure concept, insofar as it has its origin solely in the understanding (not in a pure image of sensibility), is called notio.b A concept made up of notions, which goes beyond the possibility of ex perience, is an idea or a concept of reason."
"but therein also reunites itself with itself; thus in this foundering, that is, in its positedness or in the negation, it rather is for the first time the essence that is reflected into itself and self identical."
"The extremes are the determinations of the judgment of reflection, singularity proper, and universality as a determination of relation, or a reflection that embraces a manifold within itself."
"For without intuition all of our cognition would lack objects,b and therefore remain completely empty."
"Footnote added in the second edition; following this point, a paragraph present in the first edition (A is omitted in the second."
"The identity which is in the impulse as such is the individual's subjective certainty of itself, in accordance with which it relates to the indifferent, concrete existence of its external world as to an appearance, to an actuality intrinsically void of concept and unessential."
"I will therefore call this attempted physiological derivation, which cannot properly be called a deduction at all because it concerns a quaestio jacti,a the explanation of the possession of a pure cognition."
"exchange of a specific thing for one designated bestimmt as universal and which counts only as value, without the other specific determination of utility ie for money."
"ng as the concepts relating to this"
"Such an arrangement can arise only by means of agreement, through the union of several different individuals for the end of such a distribution of responsibility."
"Each of these two aspects of self conscious Spirit appears to the other as the inversion of truth."
"the idea of the good Inasmuch as the concept, which is its own subject matter, is determined in and for itself, the subject is determined as singular."
"We can therefore never deter mine from this alone whether this manifold, as object of experience, is simultaneous or successive, if something does not ground it which al ways"
"Self determination provides the force of my nature with the requisite principle, that prime mover that my nature itself lacks; for this reason, its driving is from now on my driving, as a genuine I, which has made itself into what it is."
"But are we to say that because we can only push forward our investigation into the causal nexus of these things and recognize the conformity to law which it displays by following the idea of ends, we are also entitled to presume that for every thinking and knowing being the same holds true as a necessary condition, and as one, therefore, attaching to the object instead of merely to the subject, that is, to our own selves?"
"The law of the heart and the frenzy of self conceit."
"What force truly expresses, therefore, is that its reference to an other is its reference to itself; that its passivity consists in its activity."
"Now, the moral law as a law of freedom commands through determining bases that are to be wholly independent of nature and of its harmony with our power of desire (as incentives); but the acting rational being in the world is, after all, not also the cause of the world and of nature itself."
"Here one always thinks of oneself first, and only afterwards of one's neighbor."
"l Inner sense, by means of which the mind intuits itself, or its inner sta<U+FFFD>"
"If one represents everything through mere pure concepts of the understanding, without the conditions of sensible intuition, then one can say directly that for a given conditioned the whole series of conditions subordinated one to another is given; for the former is given only through the latter."
"Princips ground in some rule of the understanding, which, as so often happens, has merely been falsely interpreted."
"It thus seems that consciousness of our own efficacy is conditioned not merely by the positing of an object as such, but also by the positing of a determinate form of the object."
"a check Ansto and a doubt, and a reflection then urges itself thereupon that is, a reflection upon the fact that comprehension does not occur mechanically in this case."
"their being foritself."
"It is further said that what is infinite is not comparable as a greater or smaller; there cannot therefore be a relation of infinite to infinite according to orders or dignities of the infinite, although we do find such distinctions of infinitesimals in the science dedicated to them."
"But neither can any representation of an objective end, ie of the possibility of the object itself on principles of purposive connexion, determine the judgement of taste, and, consequently, neither can any concept of the good."
"other, must also be assumed to be fitting for this purpose."
"of molecules a mathematics, I will remark only that when philosophy quibbles with mathematics, this happens only because it forgets that this question has to do only with appearances and their conditions."
"the part of knowing to."
"what I know simply by virtue of the fact that I know anything whatsoever this is not something I could have drawn from some other knowledge."
"I liked the law, and just as well neither of them, and"
"The latter it raises to the former and acts ethically, the former it brings down to the latter and realizes the End, the substance which had an existence only in thought."
"The movement, as forward movement, turns immediately around into itself and so is only self movement a movement which comes from itself in so far as positing reflection is presupposing reflection, yet, as presupposing reflection, is simply positing reflection."
"But it is only in thought that it is in and for itself; as it is in intuition or representation, it is appearance."
"But this 'I' 'I' is the movement which reflects itselfinto itself; for since this identity, being absolute negativity, is absolute difference, the self.identity of the 'I' stands over against this pure difference which, as pure and at the same time objective to the self knowing Self, has."
"That essence, however, which is immediately united with the selfis in itselfSpirit and the truth that is a knowing, though.still not the truth thatisknown, or the truth that knows itselfin the depths of its nature."
"Difference, thus as unity of itself and of identity, is internally determined difference."
"It is only in terms of this specific shape that theft and robbery on the one hand and fines and imprisonment etc."
"content cannot be discovered by any touch stone of logic."
"In the first of the two alternative propositions, the substantiality of the Subject merely vanishes, and in the second, Substance is only a predicate, and both sides are thus present in each with contrary ineq uality of value."
"In the latter case, they do not comprise a particular part of science, but belong to the theoretical part of science as consequences of a particular kind that derive from it."
"However, although nothing incorrect can occur in its content, nevertheless sometimes, though to be sure only rarely, there can be a defect in the form (of its dress), namely with re gard to precision."
"In a word: it is only possible for our reason to use the conditions of possible experience as conditions of the possibility of things; but it is by no means possible for it as it were to create new ones, independent of these conditions, for concepts of this sort, although free of contradiction, would nevertheless also be without any object."
"This obscuring of consciousness of the moral law is something that simply happens, just because it happens, absolutely without any higher reason."
"For the latter is not merely the faculty of subsuming the particular under the universal whose concept is given, but also, conversely, that of discovering the universal for the particular."
"Below, 'is made recognizable' similarly renders wird. ."
"This content, therefore, is on its side only in itself so determined that the positedness of the one is the positedness of the other; this determination is not yet present in it."
"I will the means to this end only because this end cannot be achieved without these means; hence this relationship is itself a bounding Begrenzung of my efficacy."
"But this pure 'I,' when held fixed in abstraction and empty of content, has existence in general, the fullness of the natural and the spiritual universe, as a beyond confronting it."
"Now as regards the claim that there is no contradiction, that none is to be found, we need not worry on account of such protestations; an absolute determination of essence must be found in every experience, in anything actual just as in every concept We have already remarked this much earlier on in connection with the infinite, which is contradiction as displayed in the sphere of being."
"Of this sort, however, are the moral laws; thus these alone belong to the practical use of reason and permit a canon."
"selves of being conscious of happiness in very fitting proportion to virtue already in this life (in the world of sense)."
"Virtue, and with it human wisdom in its entire purity, are ideas."
"Now neither should what is objective in me be thought of as dependent upon what is subjective (as in the first case), nor should what is subjective in me be thought of as dependent upon what is objective (as in the second case); instead, the two should be thought of as purely and simply one als schlechthin Eins."
"Quantity is the unity of continuity and discreteness; it contains in the self subsistent one its confluence with others, and in this uninterrupted continuing self identity it equally contains the negation of it."
"When considered from the standpoint of mere discreteness, substance, matter, space, A syllogism with four terms."
"Inasmuch as it now is also only a relative universal, it does not lose its character of universality; it preserves itself in its determinateness, not just because it remains indifferent to it for then"
"These shapes, however, are distinguished from the previous ones by the fact that they are real Spirits, actualities in the strict meaning of the word, and instead of being shapes merely of consciousness, are shapes of a world."
"lieve ourselves to cognize things in themselves, though we have nothing to do with anything except appearances anywhere (in the world of sense), even in the deepest research into its objects."
"Kant's resolution of this antinomy is the same as the general resolution of the rest, namely that reason cannot prove either the one or the other proposition because we cannot have a priori any determining principle of the possibility of things according to merely empirical laws of nature; further, that therefore the two propositions must be regarded not as objective propositions but as subjective maxims; that I ought to reflect on the events of nature every time according to the principle of the mechanism of nature alone, but that this does not prevent, when occasion permits, following up certain natural forms in accordance with another maxim, namely in accordance with the principal of final causes as if now these two maxims, which moreover are supposed to be necessary only for human reason, did not stand in the same opposition as the two propositions in antinomy."
"Aristotle cites Plato (Metaphys. I. as saying that the mathematical determinations of things, being outside both the senses and the ideas, stand in between them."
"Others, on the contrary, incline more to thinking up charges and accusations to challenge that worth."
"The Doctrine of Essence essence The truth of being is essence."
"Comment Pure geometry has postulates that are practical propositions, which, however, contain nothing more than the presupposition that one can do something if perhaps it were demanded that one shou do it; and these are the only propositions of pure geometry that concern an existence of something."
"This is entirely correct, so long as one is talking simply about sensory pleasure"
"Accordingly, force is a relation in which each side is the same as the other."
"The aim of this remark is only to prevent one from thinking of illustrating the asserted ideality of space with completely inadequate examples, since things like colors, taste, etc., are correctly considered not as qualities of things but as mere alterations of our subject, which can even be different in different people."
"The immediate consequence of this for itself is that any content one pleases can be subsumed under the good."
"under the designations of omnipotence, omniscience, omnipresence, omnibenevolence,c etc."
"This externality is its existence, by which it finds itself at the same time in the opposition of being determined over against it as existing in itself, not as being thought as the absolute that exists for itself."
"that in the latter case this knowledge is not located in the existing thing itself, but in an intellect outside of it."
", the law of its causality, is known through experience, all its actions would have to admit of explanation in accordance with natural laws, and all the requisites for a perfect and necessary determination of them would have to be encountered in a possible experience."
"Now the principle of contradiction, as a merely logical principle, must not limit its claims to temporal relations.'"
"In times of war, for example, various things which are otherwise harmless must be regarded as harmful."
"The deist represents this being merely as a cause of the world (whether through the necessity of its nature or through freedom re mains undecided), the theist as an author of the world."
"In holding on to property its behaviour is all the more selfcentred and stubborn, and in its enjoyment it is all the more crudely self abandoned, since its religious 'act of giving up possessions and enjoyment falls on the far side of this reality and purchases freedom for itself on thatside."
"Consequently, the true sacrifice of being for seif is solely that in which it surrenders itself as completely as in death, yet in this renunciationnoless preserves itself."
"We must even admit that, as Epicurus maintained, gratification and pain though proceeding from the imagination or even from representations of the understanding, are always in the last resort corporeal, since apart from any feeling of the bodily organ life would be merely a consciousness of one's existence, and could not include any feeling of well being or the reverse, ie of the furtherance or hindrance of the vital forces."
"Since matter is therefore determined by form as by something external, it thereby attains its determination, and the externality of the relating, for both form and matter, consists in that each, or rather in that the original unity of each, in positing is at the same time presupposing: the result is that self reference is at the same time a reference to the self as sublated or is reference to its other."
"But since the moral precept is thus at the same time my maxim (as reason commands that it ought to be), I will inexorably believe in the existence of God and a future life, and I am sure that nothing can make these beliefs unstable, since my moral principles themselves, which I cannot renounce without becoming contemptible in my own eyes, would thereby be subverted."
"cognized and prescribed through reason at all."
"Genius, we all know, was once all the rage in poetry, as it now is in philosophy; but when its productions made sense at all, such genius begat only trite prose instead of poetry, or, getting beyond that, only crazy rhetoric."
"the existent Notion itself."
"This particular limitation is the foundation of what is merely empirical, though even this must, with respect to its possibility, still be grounded a priori."
"But what is present in the place, or what it produces in the things themselves besides the alteration of place, is not given through these relations."
"It is the principle of the synthesis of all predicates which are to make up the complete concept of a thing, and not merely of the analytical representation, through one of two opposed predicates; and it contains a transcendental presupposition, namely that of the material of all possibility, which is supposed to contain a priori the data for the particular possibility of every thing."
"In every punishment, as such, there must first be justice, and this amounts to what is essential in this conce"
"Essence has a shine because it is determined within itself and is therefore distinguished from its absolute unity."
"The one is consequently a becoming of many ones."
"The spirit of the corporation, which arises when the particular spheres gain legal recognition Berechtig lg is now at the same time inwardly transformed into the spirit of the state, because it finds in the state the means of sustaining its particular ends."
"But he who rejects a philosophical systerp."
"For example, rivers in their course carry down earth of all kinds that is good for the growth of plants, and this they deposit sometimes inland, sometimes at their mouths."
"This 'pathos' is, by itself, the Being of the risen Sun, but a Being which has now et' within itself, and has its 'setting' or going down,.e."
"Consequently, the number is not a plurality over against the limiting one that encloses it, but itself constitutes this delimitation which is a determinate quantum; the many constitute a number, a one, a two, a ten, a hundred, etc."
", we are instructed by this law that they have objects, yet without being able to indicate how their conce refers to an object."
", in regard to this category reason has no ground to proceed regressively toward conditions."
"This possibility exists within subjectivity, for,"
"What the latter is in itself, it knows therefore from what it actually is."
"But determination passes over into constitution on its own, and constitution into determination."
"The unconditioned unity in the multiplicity in time,.e., not numerically different in different times, but rather as One and the very same subject"
"Its proper scope is the development and justification of the subjective principle of taste, as an a priori principle of judgement."
"The middle term was the abstract particularity, an isolated simple determinateness, and was a middle only externally and relative to the selfsubsisting extremes."
"One of the more recent achievements of history has been to develop the monarchic constitution to the point where heredi tary succession to the throne is firmly based on primogeniture."
"This distinction can be marked in English as that between quantity and magnitude."
", I really have the representation of time and my determinations in it."
"But this is only to say that is related not to but to the square of."
", duty is a heing for another, something transparent which has merely the significance of an essentiality in general, lacking aU content."
"If one could securely count even on this minimum, however, then the dispute of speculative reason about the important questions of God, immortality (of the soul), and freedom would either have long been decided or else"
"If instead of A or any other substrate, identity itself is assumed 'identity is identity'"
"but as the totality of its differentiated determinations. '"
"a world of appearance intelligible world"
"But I am simple signifies no more than that"
"On this side of exclusive relating, numbers have lost their continuity and their tendency to combine; their relating is one of more Cf."
"Lagrange, Theorie des fonctions analytiques,."
"But however troublesome this may be, no objective boundary line can be drawn here.i In the indeterminate multiplication and interdependence of daily needs, the procurenlent and exchange ofmearls to satisfY these (a process on whose unimpeded continuance everyone relies) and"
"For the mediation of, there is available; hence the mediation must be given the shape of."
"Now before the primeval sea withdrew from the land it left numerous sand tracts behind it in our northern regions."
"This existence is the true evil which must be removed, anci'the essential point is to disco<U+FFFD>"
"as a vain consciousness, and lastly, in that relation to faith mentioned above."
"it formerly.;;l.d, viz."
"But it is an abstract universality because its content is this rigid unyielding self, not the self that is dissolved in the substance."
"Since both, the finite and the infinite, are themselves moments of the progress, they are jointly the finite, and, since they are equally jointly negated in it and in the result, this result as the negation of their joint finitude is called with truth the infinite."
"a with loathing, even though, if someone has geared his principles merely to advantages of his own, you would not have the slightest objection against these guidelines."
"Even if, as was just noted, my first action can be none other than to satisfy the drive; and even if the concept of an end for this action is given through the drive itself, the drive is nevertheless posited with a different determination when it is posited as the concept of an end than when it is posited as a drive."
"them from the nature of our reason, and this is to be accomplished in the present section."
"To know something falsely means that there is a disparity between knowledge and its Substance."
"As thus posited over against the finite, the two connected by the qualitative mutual reference of others, the infinite is to be called the bad infinite, the infinite of the understanding, for which it counts as the highest, the absolute truth."
"Who can fail to see that the word freedom occurs in this sentence with two different meanings?"
"I I as the concept of the will."
"this latter is thus a quality."
"But the principle of the re<U+FB02>ective power of judgement, through which nature is thought as a system under empirical laws, is to be considered merely as a principle for the logical employment of the power of judgement, and while it is indeed a transcendental principle with regard to its origin, it serves merely to regard nature"
"The further empirical characteristics of the thing (whether it be a stick,."
"the Critique of Pure Reason,."
"When we speak of or degrees, the quantum which has that many degrees the tenth, the twentieth degree is not the amount and sum of the degrees; if that were the case, it would be an extensive quantum; it is rather only that one degree, the tenth, the twentieth."
"Taste lays claim simply to autonomy."
"But it is more difficult to grasp this '"
"To help bring philosophy closer to the form of Science, to the goal where it can lay aside the title 'love of knowing' and be actual knowing that is what I have set myself to do."
"This, then, is how the Thing of perception is constituted; and consciousness is determined as percipient in so far as this Thing is its object."
"Begehrungsverm gen. wird."
"The understanding, which can grasp distinctions, brings multipli city into these needs; and shlce taste and utility"
"It always requires some effort to tear oneself loose."
"It is the moral genius which knows the inner voice of what it immediately knows to bea divine voice; and since, in knowing this, it has an equally immediate knowledge of existence,it is the divine creative power which in its Notion possesses the spontaneity of life."
"The second point which is requisite to make an hypothesis worthy of being assumed is its adequacy for determining a priori the consequences these are given."
"Since the determinations of ethics constitute the concept of freedom, they are the substantiality or universal essence of individuals, who are related to them merely as accidents."
"Consequently, it is now essence in the form of something, the Spirit of which is that it is to be sacrified and surrendered, ie it exists as wealth."
"What if the person who took the property knew that the original owner would make some harmful use of it, whereas he himself intended to use it in a very praiseworthy way for the greater glory of God and the greater service to his neighbors: would he not then, according to your own principles, be acting quite rightly?'"
"it is other being and being for sel/, and in this determinateness, or in its self externality, abides within itself; in other words, it is in andfor itself."
"that upon which it acts are one and the same."
"and it exists just as surely as human beings are finite but perfectible what is supersensible is not determined but is now, for the first time, supposed to become determined, and it continues to become further determined in a process that continues for all eternity."
"them, I find myself in a destructive limitatiori, for by my very act I have relinquished my univers.ruity, which is a system of all' drives; But'it is of just as little help merely to subordinate certain drives to others the course of actiop."
"But since the substantial is its inner content, only this can be taken completely seriously."
"So much for the completeness in reaching each of the ends, and for the comprehensiveness in reaching all of them together, which ends are not proposed arbitrarily, but are set up for us by the nature of cognition itself, as the matter of our critical investigation."
"If a consideration that avoids the concept stops short at their external relation, isolates them and leaves them as fixed presuppositions, it is the concept that, on the contrary, will fix its sight on them, move them as their soul and bring out their dialectic."
"Understood in a moral sense, honor and a good reputation consist in the opinion of others concerning us, namely, their opinion that it is indeed possible that, in our actions in general and especially in our interactions with them, we intend to do nothing"
"That these magnitudes constituting the amount consist in turn of decimal fractions, that is, themselves consist of ratios, is irrelevant here; for this circumstance concerns the particular kind of unit of these magnitudes, not these magnitudes as constituting the amount; likewise in the decimal system an integer of more than one digit counts as one amount, and the fact is ignored that it consists of products a number, the number ten, and their powers."
"Our ultimate goal is the self sufficiency of all reason as such and thus not the selfsufficiency of one rational being Einer Vernunft insofar as the latter is an individual rational being."
"No wonder that he banished from his school the man that was ignorant of geometry, since he thought that from the pure intuition residing in the depths of the human soul he could derive all that Anaxagoras inferred from the objects of experience and their purposive connexion."
"For Schelling's critique of."
"Simply qua nature, each part possesses both reality and drive and is to that extent self sufficient."
"That is to say, I am a subject object, and my true being consists in the identity and indivisibility of the two."
"a pure e$s.ence of its own sciqusness, so that this consciousness does not take itself to be lost and negated in tha:"
"Elective mOtlarc/li may well seem the most llatural idea Vor stelltmg"
"If we add the limitation of a judgment to the con cept of the subject, then the judgment is unconditionally valid."
"Thus he is the pure, essential action in this relationship, while the action of the bondsman is impure and unessential."
"The excellent, however, not only cannot escape the fate of being thus deprived of life and Spirit, of being flayed and then seeing its skin wrapped around a lifeless knowledge and its conceit."
"Depending on whether the unit is assumed to be In the Remark to the Thesis of the First Cosmological Antinomy, in the Critique of Pure Reason."
"out, is a phenomenon deserving our attention and reflection."
"To substitute subjective necessity .e., habit for objecti necessity, which occurs only in a priori judgments, is to deny to reason the ability to make a judgment about the object, .e., to cognize it and what belongs to it."
"If one nevertheless decides not to explain this appearance of the will's absoluteness any further and decides to consider it to be absolutely inexplicable,.e., to be the truth, and indeed our sole truth, according to which all other truth has to be measured and judged and our entire philosophy is based on precisely this decision then this is not because of any theoretical insight, but because of a practical interest."
"It should also be carefully noted that the possibility of satisfying the moral law is here found to be determined not by any foreign principle lying outside of this law (heteronomously) but by the moral law itself (autonomously)."
"Reading, with Nolte, Wille, and with Natorp in the Akademie edition, Sinnlichkeit for Sittlichkeit ('morality')."
"The Platonic idea is nothing else than the universal, or,"
"Throughout this part of the work there are minor changes in orthography between the two editions, very few of which affect the translation."
"Such an idealism is formal, since it does not take into consideration the content of representation or thought, and therefore does not go past its finitude."
"The power in question is in this case not first to be inferred from the actuality that is attached to thinking thereby as often happens in other cases; on the contrary, in this case thinking is supposed to commence with the power as what is primary and immediate."
"and it was inevitable that the connection of purposiveness in objects would so often appear just a frivolity, since it appears external and therefore contingent."
"See Johann Heinrich Lambert, Neues Organon oder Gedanken uber die Erforschung und"
"On account of the universality of the property, I must rather take the objective essence to be on the whole a community."
"one which the latter must regard."
"But the expositor of the absolute is the absolute necessity which, as self determining, is identical with itself."
"The le sex is therefore spirituality which divides itself up into personal self sufficiency with being for itself and the knowledge and volition of free liversality, ie into the self consciousness of con ceptual thought and the volition of the objective and ultimate end."
"If we do not find this in the essence of the things which constitute the whole object of experience,.e."
"But even there it was not this feeling exactly that we deduced from the idea of the moral as cause, but from this was derived simply the determination of the will."
"Therefore the connection of virtue with happiness can either be understood in such a way that the endeavor to be virtuous and the rational pursuit of happiness would be not two different but instead entirely identical actions, in which case one would not have to base the former action on any other maxim than the latter; or this connection is posited in such a way that virtue produces happiness as something distinct from the consciousness of virtue, as a cause produces an effect."
", it always remains doubtful whether this cause is internal or external, thus whether all so called outer perceptions are not a mere play of our inner sense, or whether they are related to actual external objects as their cause."
"For everyone can have taste, and taste can be freely cultivated; hence everyone can know what is contrary to taste."
"Hence this way of grounding an unconditioned existence would be distinguished from the empirically unconditioned causality (of freedom) in the previous article in that in the case of freedom, the thing itself as cause (substantia phaenomenon)a would nevertheless belong to the series of conditions, and only its causality would be thought as intelligible, but here the necessary being would have to be thought of as entirely outside the series of the world of sense (as an ens extramundanum)b and merely intelligible; this is the only way of preventing it from being subjected to the law of the contingency and dependence of all appearances."
"; this is the limitless infinity of absolute abstraction or Iwiversa the pure thinking onesel."
"as such; and what is int igible is what is already familiar and common to Science and the unscientific cDnsciousness alike, the latter through its having afforded direct access to the former."
"otherwise it is not fine art."
"Philosophy has no need of any such aid, either from the world of the senses, or from the representations of the imagination, or also from spheres which belong to its own realm but are subordinated, and whose determinations are therefore unsuited to higher circles and to the whole."
"Now of course no one can adduce the least ground for such an assertion from speculative principles ,b nor even indeed establish its possibil ity, but rather it can only be presupposed; yet just as little can anyone make any valid dogmatic objection against it."
"See Cavalieri, Exercitationes geometric sex,."
"the being for consciousness of this in itself."
"Therefore, 'evil' is a legitimate rendering for bel in works that are not concerned to distinguish bel from se."
"This then that a force happens to incur a stimulus through another force; that it therefore behaves passively but then again passes over from this passivity into activity"
"The outcome is a recognition that is one.sided and unequal."
"Mathematics shows that, despite the conflict inherent in its operations, the results that it obtains through them wholly agree with those found by the strictly mathematical method, namely the geometrical and analytical."
"and it possesses less worth in"
"Since it is for I hood as such a contingent fact that I, individual, am precisely, and since the drive for self sufficiency is supposed to be a drive of I hood, essentially as such, the aim of this drive is not the self sufficiency of the individual, but rather, the self sufficiency of reason as such."
"A distinction within the simple ethical substance is for it an accident which appeared, as we sawin specific command ments, as the contingency of the knowledge of the circumstances of the circumstances themselves, and of the action."
"For this is at once incompetence and deceit, to fancy and to pretend that one merely has not the right word, and to hide from oneself that really one has failed to get hold of the thing itself,"
"The reason for this is as follows: there is simply no criterion for the objective truth of my sensory perceptions other than the agreement of my experience with the experience of others."
"Now we are asking how this is possible; and once we have established this consciousness of freedom we will then attach conditions to it that are still to be indicated and thereby attach these same conditions to immediate self consciousness."
"But subjectivity attains its truth only as a mbjea, and personality only as a person, and in a constitution which has progressed to real rationality, each of the three moments of the concept has its distinc tive ausgesonderte shape which is aaual for itself."
"The actual judgment that expresses the assertion of the rule in the subsumed caseb is the conclusion (conclusio)."
"being and essence to which, from other starting points, feeling, intuition, and representation, which appeared to be its antecedent conditions, also belong; it has demonstrated itself to be their unconditional foundation."
"Reading, with Gustav Hartenstein, desselben for derselben."
"It is not yet a government, and therefore not yet in truth an actual state power."
"In order to facilitate some insight into the overall connections between the various steps of our inquiry I will add the following: our inquiry picks up at the very point"
"On account of this utterance in which the self is expressed and acknowledged as essent being, the validity of the act is acknowledged by others."
"The form by virtue of which the absolute would be attribute, whether it is taken as outer or inner, is therefore posited as something null in itself, an external reflective shine, or a mere way and manner."
"According to the proof just conducted, however, all sensory pleasure relates to the body as an organization."
"The first ones, as immediate, do not in their ideality return into themselves, but have this ideality each in another."
"The product of the reciprocal interaction of the components of my nature as described above is a drive."
"A closer analysis of this antinomy will likewise show that both theses as well as their proofs (which, like those previously considered, are conducted apagogically) amount to nothing more than these two simple, opposed claims: there is a limit, and, the limit must be transcended."
"By juxtaposing this reciprocal determination of subject and predicate in the judgment, we thus obtain this twofold result."
"The brother, however, is for the sister a passive, similar being in general; the recognition of hers elfin him is pure and unmixed with any natural desire."
", to posit for it an actual object, but only as a Something in general with which I am not acquainted at all and to which, as a ground of that systematic unity and in relation to that, I give such properties as are analogous to the concepts of the understanding in their empirical use."
"to the condition of a state constitutes the fimnal realization of the Idea in ge@al within it."
"The will is the unity of both these moments into itself and ereb restored to tmiversalit"
"Now, the 'matter in hand' in being merely willed, or evenin being incapable of realization, has the meaning of an empty purpose and of a unity of wining and achievement only in thought."
"Here, in brief, is how this matter is to be resolved: within thedomain of the moral law, I should view my fellow human beings only as tools of reason."
"So far as we can see up to this point, consciousness arises from a perception of our real efficacy in the sensible world; we derive this efficacy from our willing, and we derive the determinacy of our willing from a freely designed concept of an end."
"as in the Suhrkamp edition of the text."
"We were bound to have present to our minds the thought of another possible form of intuition, if ours was to be deemed one of a special kind, one, namely, for which objects were only to rank as phenomena.)"
"It will be shown in what follows, however, that in re gard to its practical use reason still has the right to assume something which it would in no way be warranted in presupposing in the field of mere speculation without sufficient grounds of proof; for all such pre suppositions injure the perfection of speculation, about which, however, the practical interest does not trouble itself at."
"The relation between the two is therefore always one of identity but at a distance."
"But the self subsistent materialities are what they qualitatively are only in virtue of the quantitative determination that they have as measures, and are posited in virtue of this same quantitative connection with others as non indifferent from them (the so called affinity); they are the members of a series of such quantitative relations."
"This completes the monads, which are to constitute the fundamental matter of the entire universe, the active power of which, however, con sists merely in representations, through which they are properly effica cious merely within themselves."
"Such things must also be learned, but this requires a different kind of instruction."
"If the relation, referred to above, of the organism to the natural elements does not express its essence, the notionofEnd, on the other hand, does contain it."
"Consciousness, therefore, reflects itself out of this movement back into itself as the True; but,"
"mind and recDunting cDnventional ideas, as if they were established and familiar truths, Dr by dishing up something new with the assurance that it comes frDm the shrine Dfinner"
"Furthermore, he has a duty to communicate his convictions in order thereby to make them publicly useful; yet he is not permitted to communicate them immediately to everyone."
"as I Sache which is excellent, it is I I am also beyond this law and can do please."
"Nothing is in the whole which is not in the parts, and nothing is in the parts which is not in the whole."
"This expression indicates at first the mere quantitative difference of the more or less determinations which a universal contains as contrasted to a particularity coming under it."
"If, however, the unity is not taken abstractly and indeterminately, but rather, as in the presupposition, as the determinate unity of the finite and the infinite, the distinguishing of these two is also present in it."
"The shining is a self referring shining, thus it is; this being is substance as such."
"The just stated transition from the form of the connection to the form of the determination has the immediate consequence that the not of the copula must just as equally be attached to the predicate and that the latter must be determined as the not universal."
"While not having this ideal in our possession, we still strive to produce it within us."
"How will he judge his individual intrinsic purposiveness that is derived from the moral law which he reveres in practice?"
",.orderedmateriaL; by focusing .on"
"Thus without a God and a world that is now not visible to us but is hoped for, the majestic ideas of morality are, to be sure, objects of approbation and admiration but not incentives for resolve and realization, because they would not fulfill the whole end that is natural for every rational being and determined a priori and necessarily through the very same pure reason."
"Of this kind of proof there is still no trace in the cited mathematical principles of natural philosophy, as also there is none in subsequent works of the same kind."
"Second, reason in its logical use seeks the universal condition of its a subalternes Grundsatz Objecte Grundsiitze Principium Grundsatz A A.A"
"Therefore, what is ordinarily is in fact a ratio, and this so called called the sum, like the or the -a finite expression is the true infinite expression."
"First Conflict of the Transcendental Ideas Thesis"
"attention to this property of our personality and to cultivate as best"
"the immediate passage of the mere thought form of its universality into actuality; or, culture is the simple soul of the substance by means of which, what is implicit in the substance, acquires an acknowledged, real existence."
"The property is not only external determination but concrete existence immediately existing in itself."
"is its own.being for self."
"The way of acting efficaciously upon mere nature to which we are here referring is that through which a product of art or an artifact Kunstprodukt comes into being."
"Since I would now conclude this fourth section, and with it at the same time the system of all principles of the pure understanding, I must still provide the reasona why I have called the principles of modality postulates."
"but of content,.e., regarding the manifoldness of ex isting beings that even the most acute human understanding, through comparison of one with another, could not detect the least similarity (a case which can at least be thought), then the logical law of genera would not obtain at all, no concept of a genus, nor any other universal con cept, indeed no understanding at all would obtain, since it is the understanding that has to do with such concepts."
"To such questions as, When was Caesar born?, or How many feet were there in a stadium?, etc."
"Real possibility thus constitutes the totality of conditions, a dispersed actuality which is not reflected into itself but is determined to be the in itself of an other and intended in this determination to return to itself."
"Sublated in the second process is the externality of the real unity, union as merely neutral."
"But (as everyone has to find in the intuition of himself as intellect, something that cannot be demonstrated to anyone) the intellect, as such, is absolutely self determining, nothing but pure activity, in contrast to all subsisting and being posited, no matter how subtly the latter might be thought; hence the intellect is incapable of any determination through its nature and essence (provided it had one), incapable of any tendency, drive, inclination, or anything similar."
"The first would be hypothetical imperatives and would contain mere precep of skill; the second, on the contrary, would be categorical and would alone be practical laws."
"; meaning will translate this word for the remainder of this paragraph."
"Faust, Part I (adapted)."
"way of the world' is thus, on the one hand, the single in dividuality which seeks its own pleasure and enjoyment."
"Thus I had to deny reason to be impossimake room for faith; and the dogmatism of metaphysics,.e., the prejudice that without criticism reason can make progress in metaphysics, is the true source of all unbelief conflicting with morality, which unbelief is always very dogmatic."
"The mere possibility that my property might be endangered does not relieve me of the duty to save the actually endangered property of someone else."
"But the universal idea of nature, as the sum of objects of the senses, gives us no reason whatever for assuming that things of nature serve one another as means to ends, or that their very possibility is only made fully intelligible by a causality of this sort."
"In such propositions the True is only posited immediately as Subject, but is not presented as the movement of reflecting itself into itself."
"But this objective question is not applicable here or rather, it is the subjectivity of consciousness itself whose decision alone con stitutes the objective element."
"But on the one hand, the distinction discussed above is contained in the relations of do lium directum and do lium utile, in the etllphyteutie contract and the further relations encountered in estates held in fief with their hereditary rents and other taxes, payments, feudal tributes, etc."
"In the first edition the sentence does not end here but is separated from what follows by a colon."
"No demonstration can ever move one to be delighted or sad about something."
"If we are to judge nature as dynamically sublime, it must be represented as a source of fear ("
"Now in fact no other objects except those of sense can be given to us, and they can be given nowhere except in the context of a possible experience; consequently, nothing is an object for us unless it presupposes the sum total of all empirical reality as condition of its possibility."
"Now no multiple is the greatest, because one or more units can always be added to it. ."
"The true significance of the transitoriness and the dissolution of these determinations is just this, that they attain to their concept, to their truth; being, existence, something, or whole and part, and so on, substance and accidents, cause and effect, are thought determinations on their own; as determinate concepts, however, they are grasped in so far as each is cognized in unity with its others or in opposition to them."
"ebetl damit, daft er sich in sie hineinbildet."
"This disposition Disposition of the moral law, considered negatively, leads to the absolute prohibition against ever leading another person into error, that is, to the prohibition against lying to or deceiving the other whether this occurs in an outright manner (by categorically asserting something I myself do not consider to be true) or by means of circumlocution (by providing him with ambiguous reports intended to deceive him)."
"Now, however, he destroys this alien negative moment, posits himself as a negative in the permanent order of things, and thereby hecomesfor himself, someone existing on his own account."
"But the absolute is not attribute just because it is the subject matter of an external reflection and is consequently something determined by it."
"And surely it is common to distinguish being from appearing, appearance from actuality, as also being as contrasted to actuality, and still more all these expressions from objectivity."
"Thus we might say that the absolute whole of appearances is only an idea, since, because we can never project it in an image, it remains a problem without any solution."
"tolerate this situation and make their arrangements accordingly, namely, by acquiring for themselves skills for other things."
"The two measures which, as independent, are supposed to be compared, are at first differentiated from each other only as quanta; in order that their ratio be determined, the ratio requires a unit which exists for itself and is common to both."
"A to any objecta at all."
"It is inherent in this element of the vill that I am able to free myself from everything, to, and to abstract from everything."
"The multiplication of lines by lines appears at first sight to make no sense, for multiplication has to do simply with numbers, that is, it is an alteration of elements totally homogeneous with that into which they are altered, with the product, only the quantity alters."
"This admission involves a further inference, and one of such a nature that we see that it is intended for the power of judging by concepts of practical reason, and, being so, is drawn for re<U+FB02>ective, not for determining judgement."
"; a concept of an end is supposed to be a model or prefiguration Vorbild for something outside us."
"These propositions that we are now recalling are not dogmatic assertions, for they are results that obtained on their own out of the whole development of essence."
"Just as twenty contains as extensive magnitude twenty ones as discrete, the specific degree contains them as continuity,"
"This content is likewise universal; there can be no other content which by its particular constitution would fail to fall within this unconditioned universality."
"Thus just as the idea gives the rule, so the ideal in such a case serves as the original imageC for the thoroughgoing determination of the copy; and we have in us no other standard for our actions than the conduct of this divine human being, with which we can compare ourselves, judgingd ourselves and thereby improving our selves, even though we can never reach the standard."
"We have spirited, and we have tender emotions."
"subjective (gratification or pain), and that the judgement has no right to the necessary agreement of others."
"Where, however, the imagination is compelled to follow a course laid down by a determinate law, then what the form of the product is to be is determined by concepts; but, in that case, as already shown, the delight is not delight in the beautiful, but in the good, (in perfection, though it be no more than formal perfection), and the judgement is not one due to taste."
"Identity and difference."
"This language is, therefore, Itot yet Spirit that com"
"In Plato's Republic, it is the task of the guardians to allot individu als to their particular estates and to specifY what particular services they have to perform (cf Remarks to."
"But the ontological proof consists precisely in thus extracting God's existence from his concept Now, though there is of course truth to the claim that the concept is different from being,"
"For since the latter would be just as dogmatic, though in denial, as reason would be in its affirmation, there can be a justification xm;' go)Jtov,"
"But the fact that it is essentially in the form of Notion, not only does not conflict with its being accessible to observation, but rather for that very reason gives ita necessary existence, and makes it an object for observation."
"But the very same world is called nature insofar as it is consid ered as a dynamic whole"
"Weltweisheit Bewegungsgriinde, replaced in the second edition with Triebfedern (incentives) in order to leave room for the idea that although incentives based on feelings are not adequate for morality, there can be other, more purely rational motives for it (see Groun,."
"But all judgments, indeed all comparisons, require a reflection,.e., a distinction of the cognitive power to which the given con a"
"it cannot be inferred that the con tradictory opposite of A is possible, and hence that A is contingent; for to have this it would be required that in the very time when there was motion, rest could have been there instead."
", it is mere matter, simply viewed from a different side just as, above, the causality of the concept with respect to what is objective appeared, respectively, as will and as body when viewed from different sides."
"For here reason never needs an absolute totality in the series, because it is not presup posed as a condition as given (datum), but it is only added on as some thing conditioned, which is capable of being given (dabile), and this without end."
"But talk of virtue in general for itself; only in the its distinctiveness."
"This also ex plains why, in relation to that which is given to the senses as existing, we need the idea of a being which is necessary in itself, but can never have the least concept of this being and its absolute necessity."
"The procedure, if one may say so, could not be laid out in a more schoolmasterly form; the last substitution is the assumption of the proportionality of the increments of the ordinate and abscissa to the ordinate and subtangent which in the ordinary differential method is made the basis for the determination of the tangent; in Barrow's rule, this assumption stands out in all its naive nakedness."
"Thus honesty of disposition often stands in an inverse relationa to the goodness of the cause itself, and the latter has perhaps more upright and sincere opponents than defenders."
"Either a principle of reason is thought as already in itself the determining basis of the will without regard to possible objects of Wohlbefinden und Wohlverhalten; wherever feasible, I translate Verhalten as 'conduct,' and Wohlverhalten as 'good conduct.'"
"Likewise, the commonly used expression ein bler Mensch clearly refers to a morally bad hence evil person."
"The relationship of the natural drive to the principle just set forth is as follows: at each moment there is something that is suitable for our ethical vocation; this something is at the same time demanded by the natural drive (if it is natural and has not been spoiled, so to speak, through a depraved fantasy)."
"This relation and its recognition are therefore the substantial duty of individuals their duty to preserve this substantial individu ality ie the independence and sovereignty of the state even if their own life and property, as well as their opinions and all that naturally falls within the province of life, are endangered or sacrificed."
"The question just posed can have two different meanings."
"Through these moments of surrender, first of its right to decide for itself, then ofits property and enjoyment, anp finally through the positive moment.ofpractisingwhatit does not understand, it truly and completely deprives itself of the consciousness of inner and outerfreedom, of the actualityin which cQllsciousn exists/or itself."
"Kant uses the two terms interchangeably."
"Leitfaden Principien"
"The concept is, to start with, formal, the concept in its beginning or as the immediate concept In this immediate unity, its difference or its positedness is, first, itself initially simple and only a reflective shine, so that the moments of the difference are immediately the totality of the concept and only the concept as such."
"As such, it is not distinguished from its other; it is only existence and, therefore, it and its other have the same determination; each is only something in general or each is other; and so both are the same."
"But the commands of this truthspeaking god and his announcements of what is, are really deceptive."
"The assertion as such, as also the assertion as to any specific number of species of categories, is a new assertion which, however, itself implies that we no longer have to accept it as an assertion."
"By deriving the necessity of such an assumption immediately from the presupposition of any consciousness whatsoever, we would answer the question raised above concerning how we come to ascribe to ourselves efficacy in a sensible world outside of us."
"But in apprehending the object of faith as insight's own object, it already does faith a wrong."
"See Lagrange, Equations Numeriques,."
"Freedom of public communication (of whose two modes the press has a wider range of contact than the spoken word, although it lacks the latter's vitality), the satisfaction of the burning urge to express one's opinion and to have expressed it, is directly guaranteed by those laws and ordinances, as upheld by the police, which prevent or punish its excesses."
"Now existence is also comprehended under all reality: thus existence lies in the concept of something possible."
"Below, 'powers' translates Kr fte; above, as well as later in this paragraph, Verm gen is rendered as 'ability.'"
"But philosophy must beware of the wish to be edifying."
"a ter Quantity a. pure quantity Quantity is sublated being for itself."
"Griblde and counter arguments (between which vacillations in either direction are always possible) and resolves them by its 'I will' thereby initiating all activity and actuality."
"My world, however, is determined through its opposition to or contrast with me; that is, the world as I originally find it, the world that is supposed to exist without any assistance from me, is determined by its opposition to me, through its contrast with me as I necessarily find myself to be, not as I perhaps ought to make myself freely."
"The ground from which this movement starts and on which it takes place, is the ethical realm; what is active in this movement, however, is self consciousness."
"The division of objects into phaenomena and nOllmena, and of the a Object Objecte"
"Pure insight thus denies itselfboth as pure insight for it denies directly purposive action and as pure intention for it denies the intention of proving itself freed from the Ends of a separate individual existence."
"Whatever is distinguished as part, or by some otherwise external reflection, has the whole concept within it; the concept is the soul omnipresent in it, a soul which is simple self reference and remains one in the manifoldness that accrues to the objective being."
"The monad is, therefore, essentially Spinoza, Ethics, Part Definition."
"What is there of positive in it?"
"Positedness is likeness and unlikeness; these two, reflected into themselves, constitute the determinations of opposition."
"(At every possible moment the original drive strives after something determinate, which is determined by everything that preceded it, as well as by its own nature."
"Herein lies the absolute right of the authority which insight exercises over faith; but the reality on which it exercises this authority lies just in the fact that the believing consciousness is itself the Notion, and therefore itself acknowledges the opposite aspect which insight puts before it."
"They are related to one another through their Notion, for they are pure Notions themselves; and this absolute relation and abstract movement constitutes necessity."
"The.m.ity of the irdivirj.yal lf consciousness and its changeless essenc to hieh"
"In the case of a literary work, the form which makes it an external thing"
"The unfolding of the experience in which they are encountered, however, is not their deduction (but their illustration), since they would thereby be only contingent."
"Yet the organism, as it has been characterized above, is, in.fact, the real Ep.q itself; for since itpreservesi.tself in the .relation"
"In beings of the latter type the drive is at the same time the effect."
"Even at this point I would like to add an important remark, the consequences of which are far reaching and the neglect of which has occasioned considerable disadvantages for philosophy in general and for ethics in particular."
"The reciprocity of action is itself, therefore, only a still empty way and manner, and all that is still needed is merely the external bringing together of what is already there, both in itself and as posited."
"But this beyond of measure is the negativity of measure only in itself; thus, third, the indifference of the determinations of measure is thereby posited, and measure (real measure because of the negativity contained within it) is posited as an inverse ratio of measures which, as self subsistent qualities, essentially rest on only their quantity and their negative reference to each other, and consequently prove to be only moments of their truly selfsubsistent unity."
"By its means we bring into combination the manifold of intuition on the one side and the con dition of the necessary unity of apperception on the other."
"To promote this end so far, in respect of happiness, as lies in our power is commanded us by the moral law, whatever the outcome of this endeavour may be."
"oTright I ts ultimate content, based on prohibition."
"On the Clue to the Discovery of all Pure Concepts of the Understanding"
"However, these appearances are not things in themselves, but themselves only representations, which in turn have their object, which therefore cannot be further intuited by us, and that may therefore be called the non empirical,.e.,"
"What happens then is that these two different maxims seem to all appearance incompatible with one another, and a dialectic arises that throws judgement into confusion as to the principle of its re<U+FB02>ection."
"; their conceptual determination in general, and more proximately their specific difference, have unfettered reality in them; in this respect, therefore, they are the same as the products of external purposiveness, and in this they also agree with the objects of arithmetic in which the underlying determination is also only one that has been posited in them."
"Eat and drink in order to honor God."
"Some materialists pointed to them to support their view that human beings are machines."
"In order to become genuine knowledge, to beget the element of Science which is the pure Notion of Science itself, it must travel a long way and work its passage."
"As an originally objective manifestation of the substance in question there thus remains only the second of the two manifestations mentioned above namely, willing, which, moreover, always remains only objective and is never itself an act of thinking, but is always only the manifestation of self activity"
"The wisest men of antiquity have therefore declared that wisdom and virtue consist in living in accordance with the customs of one's nation."
"But since its essence is to connect, it is not only that immediate constitution but the universal that runs through the subject and predicate."
"But, conversely, the freedom of being for self only proves itself in the ease with which it enters into relation with everything, and preserves itself in this multiplicity."
"Pyre insight adopts a negative attitude to the gtbsolute Being of the believing consciousn ss."
"Vorstel Imzgen and items of knowledge"
"It must not therefore be taken as the fault of a subject matter or of the cognition that these determinations, because of what they are and the way they are externally joined, prove to be dialectical."
"self and becomes his own property as diSiiiiCt from that of others."
"They do not belong to the content and body of the science but are rather compilations of an external reflection which has already gone through the whole of the exposition, therefore knows the sequence of its moments in advance and anticipates them before they are brought on by the matter at issue itself."
"Regarding amount, we must examine yet more closely how the many ones in which it consists are in the limit."
"So it is, for instance, with the tale of people whose hair from excess of grief is said to have turned white in a single night."
"Fossil remains would be objects for the archaeology of nature, just as rudely cut stones, and things of that kind, would be for the archaeology of art."
"The remainder of this paragraph added in the second edition."
"Since there is negation in this being, the latter is existence; but, further, since the negation is essentially negation of the negation, self referring negation, it is the existence that carries the name of being for itself."
"that are universally valid for us."
"I at best indifferent, but that nothing better can be expected here, so that for this reason alone we should live at peace with actuality."
"In such a significance both principles can very well coexist with one another, as merely heuristic and regulative, taking care of nothing but the formal interest of reason."
"Here, within the formal point of view of morality, conscience lacks this objective con tent, and is thus for itself the infinite formal certainty of itself, which for this very reason is at the same tlme the certainty Consc ce"
"Objecte sure and displeasure and the will, which are not cognitions at all) contains nothing but mere relations,a of places in one intuition (extension),"
"and an unconditional practical principle, can be called self conceit."
"The fact that the object represented becomes the property of pure self."
"Now no escape is left to you except to say: there are subjects that cannot be cancelled at all and thus have to re main."
"This tarrying with the negative is the magical power that converts itinto being."
"In positing itself in this way, it posits itself, on the one hand, as free (in the sense specified above), and, on the other, it subordinates its freedom to the law of self sufficiency."
"(as when one says that it would be possible for a tree to stand in the place of this stone)."
"Therefore they lack proper content a matter that would in itself be substance."
"The German language has for the expressions exposition, explication, declaration and definition nothing more than the one word explanation,"
"Immediately implied in this correct judgment, however, is that the truth is complete only in the unity of identity and difference, and, consequently, that it only consists in this unity."
", Every most real being is a necessary being."
"But this doctrine has also been revived in a more extreme shape, and inner enthusiasm and the emotions, ie the jOml of particularity as such, have been made the criterion of what is right, rational, and excellent."
"Even on this distinction, there is no denying that nothing refers to a being; but in this reference, though the latter equally also contains distinction, there is a unity with being."
"The ultimate end of nature as a teleological system We have shown in the preceding section that, looking to principles of reason, there is ample ground for re<U+FB02>ective, though not of course for determining, judgement for letting us judge man as not merely a natural end, such as all organized beings are, but as the being upon this earth who is the ultimate end of nature, and the one in relation to whom all other natural things constitute a system of ends."
"But since, on the contrary, all rep resentations, whether or not they have outer things as their object, nev ertheless as determinations of the mind themselves belong to the inner state, while this inner state belongs under the formal condition of inner A I intuition, and thus of time, so time is an a priori condition of all ap pearance in general, and indeed the immediate condition of the inner intuition (of our souls), and thereby also the mediate condition of outer appearances."
"The last considered third syllogism differs from the rest in that it is in the first instance the subjective purposive activity of the preceding syllogism, but also the sublation of external objectivity and consequently of externality in general; it is this through itself, and is, therefore, the totality in its positedness."
"For how a law can by itself and directly be a determining basis of the will"
"As we have just seen, this inner agility absolutely cannot be ascribed to something objective as such."
"The result, then, which issues from this antithesis con sists in the fact that consciousness drops like a discarded cloak its idea of a good that exists only in principle, but has as yet no actual existence."
"Here, a person assumes the role which, in the case of a pledge, is fulfille by a mere thing."
"Precisely that which should save them from contradiction and dissolution, namely that something is like another in one respect but unlike in another precisely this keeping of likeness and unlikeness apart, is their destruction."
"However, in that this right thing which conscience does is at the same time a being for another, it seems that a disparity attaches to conscience."
"But that would be the same as saying that there are absolutely necessary subjects just the presupposition whose correctness I have doubted, and the possibility of which you wanted to show me."
"This transition from the concept of pure self determination to the immediacy of being, and hence to the natural realm, is of a purely speculative nature, and its cognition accordingly belongs to logical philosophy."
"Our nature has our nature as its final end; but our nature is contained and enclosed in our body, and hence the sole end of nature"
"And thus the skeptic is the taskmaster of the dogmatic sophist for a healthy critique of the understanding and of reason itself."
"The determinations of greater or lesser sensibility or irritability are no less the unthinking appff hension and expression of a sensuous phenomenon than are the wholly sensuous determinations of strength and weakness which are devoid of any thought content."
"The second reality, however, is necessarily that in which Spirit knows itself in the shape of a superseded natural existence, or of the self."
"I have proven what the maxim must be at the present point of reflection, and I therefore assume that this maxim is determined through a theoretical law and can be derived from it."
"Thus the representation of space cannot be obtained from the relations of outer Principien Object wirkliche Wesen bezogen A. I."
"ltmgen Vorstel and with commonly encountered principles and thoughts, ends, drives, feelings"
"Quantum would require an infinite time, and this time would have to be considered as elapsed if the world is to be viewed in space not as in becoming but as completely given."
"But the modern perplexity about a beginning proceeds from a further need which escapes those who are either busy demonstrating their principle dogmatically or skeptically looking for a subjective criterion against dogmatic philosophizing, and is outright denied by those who begin, like a shot from a pistol, from their inner revelation, from faith, intellectual There is an allusion here to Fichte."
"What external reflection determines and posits in the immediate are determinations which to that extent are external to it."
"In addition, the scholar ought to contribute to the progress of this mind of the community, either by correcting the same, which is also a way of expanding cognition (for a person who is rid of an error also gains knowledge), or by drawing new inferences from what is already known."
", a use is made of concepts of reason/"
"The syllogism of reflection contained the first negation of immediacy; the second has now come on the scene, and with it the external universality of reflection is determined as existing in and for itself."
"The sole interest of this dissolution is to determine the points and the lines into which the lines and the planes have respectively been resolved in order to be able, starting from this determination, to proceed analytically, that is, in truly arithmetical fashion; for the sought magnitude determinations these starting points are the elements from which the function and the equation for the concrete, that is, the continuous, magnitude are to be derived."
"In real life, it is then a matter of making use of the thought determinations."
"the universal that is the true content of sense certainty."
"For intuitions can indeed be sensuous, but judgements certainly belong only to the understanding (taken in the broader sense), and to judge aesthetically or sensuously, in so far as this purports to be knowledge of an object, is therefore a contradiction where sensibility meddles in the affairs of the understanding and (through a vitium subreptionis) gives a false direction to the latter."
", one cannot attribute to a highest self depende wisdom a purpose that would be based merely on benignity."
"The antithesis which this observation encounters has the form of the antithesis of the practical and the theoretical, both falling within the practical aspect itselfthe antithesis ofindividuality making it actual in its 'doing' ('doing' in its most general sense), and individuality as being at the same time reflected out of this 'doing' into itself and making this its object."
"Suppose someone alleges that his lustful inclination is quite irresistible to him when he encounters the favored object and the opportunity."
"Namely, if the organs in general showed themselves to be incapable of being taken as expressions of the inner, because in them the action qua action is present, but."
"For though the nature of what consciousness received into itself was simple and homogeneous with it, yet it was also the simplicity of an introreflected negativity which subsequently also develops, in keeping with its nature, into something opposed to it and thereby reminds consciousness of its previous state."
"That unity of essence and form, the two opposed to each other as form and matter, is the absolute self determining ground."
"The objective logic thus takes the place rather of the former metaphysics which was supposed to be the scientific edifice of the world as constructed by thoughts alone."
"Necessity, infinity, unity, existence out side the world (not as soul of the world), eternity without all conditions of time, omnipresence without all conditions of space, omnipotence, etc."
"The ethical dissolution of the family consists in the fact that the children are brought up to become free personalities and, when they have come of age, are recognized as legal reclltliche persons and as capable both of holding free property of their own and of founding their own families the sons as heads of families and the daughters as wives."
"Being would not be an absolute beginning at all if it had a determinateness; in that case, it would depend on another and would not be immediate, would not be the beginning."
"For a woman chastity is the principle of all morality."
"The extremes remain diverse, because subject, method, and object are not posited as the one identical concept; the syllogism is therefore always the formal syllogism; the premise in which the subject posits the form on its side as its method is an immediate determination and contains therefore the determinations of the form as we have seen, of definition, division, and so for as matters of fact found ready made in the subject."
"Now since the faculty of cognition through concepts finds its a priori principle in the pure understanding (in its concept of nature), and the faculty of desire finds its a priori principle in pure reason (in its concept of freedom)"
"of this determination (the human being) has previously been cognized in terms the constitution with which he is actual, although only to the extent necessary in reference to duty as such."
"Subsequently he believed that he had found five more of them, which he added under the name of post pre dicaments."
"Therefore, they do not desire one another, nor have they given to, or received from, one another this independent being forself; on the contrary, they are free individualities in regard to each other."
"Such a continuity in the discrete consists in the ones being the same as one another, or in that they have the same unity."
"The latter, namely empirical concepts, together with that on which they are grounded, empirical intuition, cannot yield any synthetic proposition except one that is also merely empirical,.e.,"
"Further, each may well hope from our instauration that it claims nothing infinite, and nothing beyond what is mortal; for in truth it prescribes only the end of infinite errors, and this is a legitimate end."
"It is not a matter of indifference to me whether I act in accordance with duty or not, for I consider this to be the supreme concern of my life; for this reason I also cannot be indifferent to whether my conviction might be true or might be mistaken."
"But first of all it is not an immediate of sense intuition or of representation, but of thought, which because of its immediacy can also be called a supersensuous, inner intuiting."
"True, it is self evident that composition has the determination of accidentality and externality; but if we are to deal here with only an accidental aggregate instead of continuity, then it was not worth the effort to construct an antinomy over it, or, more to the point, none could be constructed; so the assertion that the parts are simple is then, as said, only a tautology."
"It follows from this that the overall end of the moral community as a whole is to produce unanimity concerning matters of morality."
"More precisely, the form which this dissolution takes is that, in this specific character, the individual, qua this particular individual, has become aware of himself as actual; but the specific character is not only the content of the reality, but equally its form; in other words, the reality simply as such is just this quality of being opposed to self consciousness."
"According to the elucidation provided earlier, there undoubtedly is such an I: namely, that objective, striving and driving I from which the I just described in which the intellect as such has the upper hand has torn itself loose in order to put itself forward as self sufficient."
"Continuity, in which the one is only implicitly present as a sublated moment posited as unity is the form of the indeterminateness."
"On the other hand we have also a faculty of intellectual judgement for the mere forms of practical maxims (so far as they are of themselves qualified for universal legislation) a faculty of determining an a priori delight, which we make into a law for everyone, without our judgement being founded on any interest, though here it produces one."
"what ;es to the same thing,it must observe the proper immanent development of the thing Sache itself."
"It follows from what has already been said above that everyone ought to have this opinion of everyone else, for everyone ought to regard everyone else as a potential tool of the moral law."
"Following the ideas named above as principles, we will first (in psychology) connect all appearances, actions, and receptivity of our mind to the guiding thread of inner experience as if the mind were a simple substance that (at least in this life) persists in ex istence with personal identity, while its states to which the states of the body belong only as external conditions are continuously chang ing."
"Ak. Erfahrungsprinzipien."
"Yet it must not be thought that it was as easy for it as for logic in which reason has to do only with itself to find that royal path, or rather itself to open it up; rather, I believe that mathematics was left groping about for a long time (chiefly among the Egyptians), and that its transformation is to be ascribed to a revolution, brought about by the happy inspiration of a single man in an ata Object Objecte Objecte Object Objecte Preface tempt from which the road to be taken onward could no longer be missed, and the secure course of a science was entered on and pre scribed for all time and to an infinite extent."
"Indeed, so certain is it, that we may confidently assert that it is absurd for human beings even to entertain any thought of so doing or to hope that maybe another Newton may some day arise, to make intelligible to us even the genesis of but a blade of grass from natural laws that no design has ordered."
"All appearances whatsoever are accordingly continuous magnitudes, either in their intuition, as extensive magnitudes, or in their mere perception (sensation and thus reality), as intensive ones."
"For though it speaks by means of mere sensations without concepts, and so does not, like poetry, leave behind it any food for thought, still it moves the mind more diversely, and, although with transient, still with intenser effect."
"For it would have truth only if its own being for self had confronted it as an independent object, or, what is the same thing, if the object had presented itself as this pure self certainty."
"The connection between the subject and the object of reflection is that they are supposed to be the same."
"In the same way, the central laws of the motion of the heavenly bodies established with certainty what Copernicus assumed at the beginning only as a hy pothesis, and at the same time they proved the invisible force (of Newtonian attraction) that binds the universel which would have remained forever undiscovered if Copernicus had not ventured, in a manner contradictory to the senses yet true, to seek for the observed movements not in the objects of the heavens but in their observer."
"as pure knowing, is nothing else than the self of consciousness, and the self of consciousness is heing and actuality: and similarly, because what is supposed to lie beyond actual consciousness is nothing else than pure thought, and thus is, in fact, the self' because this is so, self."
"Yet the existence of appearances cannot be cognized a priori, and even if we could succeed on this path in inferring to some existence or other, we still would not be able to cognize it determinately,.e., be able to anticipate that through which its empirical intuition is differentiated from others."
"The workwhichconscious freedom might accomplish 'would consist in that freedom, qua universal substance, making itself into an object and into an enduring being."
"What that critique claimed was that the categories can only produce knowledge when applied to sensible objects, and that they can in no way do so when applied to the supersensible."
"But that definition does not contain the necessity of its existence; it exists, either because we find it,."
"I knows that it has the universal oflaw immediately within itself, and because the law is immediately present in the being for self ofconsciousness, it is called thelaw of the heart."
"This renunciation, therefore, which the divine Beh:t,g has already accomplished inprinciplc, is shown forth hy theselfwhoperforms the sacrifice as an existent fact and for his own consciousness, tbus"
"As far as metaphysics is concerned, however, its poor progress up to now, and the fact that of no metaphysics thus far expounded can it even be said that, as far as its essential end is concerned, it even really exists, leaves everyone with ground to doubt its possibility."
"rather they not only cannot know, but they must also take it to be evil."
"According to this second relationship, the believing consciousness partly has its actuality in the real world of culture, and constitutes the Spirit and the existence of that world which we have already considered; partly, however, the believing consciousness confronts this its own actuality as something worthless, and is the process of overcoming it."
"The case is almost on a par with the practice of regaling oneself with a perfume that exhales its odours far and wide."
"The further developed self which rises to become a being:for selfis master over the pure 'pathos' of substance, over the objectivity of the Light of Sunrise, and knows that simplicity of truth as essenlialbeing which does not have the form of contingent existence through an alien speech, knows it as the sure and unwritten taU) of the gods, a law that is 'everlasting and no one knows whence"
"it is everyone's duty to provide with property anyone whom he knows to be without property; in other words, beneficence Wohlt tigkeit is a duty."
"Let us restate what we intended to convey here by all these observations."
"If the object is transcendental and thus in itself"
"Inasmuch as this is what it is, it has its complete condition; and Cf."
"A genuine com pendium, however, has as its subject matter what is considered to be the entire compass of a science; and what distinguishes it apart, perhaps, from a minor addition here or there is above all the way in which it arranges and orders .the"
"The abstract measureless is the quantum in general inasmuch as it lacks internal order and is only indifferent determinateness which does not alter measure."
"His loss was mourned throughout Europe, which his labours had enlightened and which was incensed at the judgement passed by a hated tribunal on so great a man."
"It is not just a armony,."
"On these grounds it would appear to him that this effect was one that might without reservation be regarded as an end, though not as a natural end."
"anditsin itse/f, as its inversion,"
"In the former, however, it takes the eye some time to complete the apprehension from the base to the summit; but in this interval the first tiers always in part disappear before the imagination has taken in the last, and so the comprehension is never complete."
"On the one hand, it is through the system of particularity Partikularitiit that right becomes externally necessary as a protection for particular interests die Be lderheit."
"They are, and nothing mpre; this is what constitutes the awareness ofits relationship to them."
"It is custo ary to preface a work With an explanation of the author aim, why he wrote the book, and the relationship in which he believes it to stand to other earlier or contemporary treatises on the same subject."
"thing seen he true.; but tbis added circumstance has no bearing onjtscon ent, but only ooits relation to the knowing Subject."
"But, on the contrary, we dispute all claim of time to absolute re ality, namely where it would attach to things absolutely as a condition property even without regard to the form our sensible intuition."
"True infinity, thus taken in general as existence posited as affirmative in contrast to abstract negation, is reality in a higher sense than it was earlier as simply determined; it has now obtained a concrete content."
"More will be said below about this conce These magnitudes are so determined that they are in their vanishing not before this vanishing, for they would then be finite magnitudes; not after it, for then they would be nothing."
"Of course they would still remain unshaken in their hyperphysics; so much so that they would discover even in miscarriages which yet cannot possibly be deemed ends of nature a marvellous purposiveness, even if it be directed to no better end than that of being a purposiveless purposiveness intended to set some chance anatomist at his wit's end, and make him fall on his knees with admiration."
"; it is positedness in itself, hence through the other substance it receives an effect within; but, conversely, this positedness is its own in itself, it is thus its own effect, it itself displays itself as a cause."
"I we are speaking of the division not of philosophy,"
"Itean only ask for happiness to be granted as a free act of grace, Le."
"For the immediate is determined by reflection as the negative of the latter or as the other of it, but it is reflection itself which negates this determining."
"The discipline of pure reason in dogmatic use Since we have made it our duty to determine the bounds of pure rea son in transcendental use exactly and with certainty, but this sort of en deavor has the peculiarity that, in spite of the most pressing and clearest warnings, it still always lets itself hope that it can stave off having to give up entirely the effort to get beyond the bounds of experience into the charming regions of the intellectual, it is therefore necessary to cut away, as it were, the last anchor of a fantastical hope, and to show that the pursuit of the mathematical method in this sort of cognition cannot offer the least advantage, unless it is that of revealing its own nakedness all the more distinctly, and revealing that mathematicsO and philosophy are two entirely different things, although they offer each other their hand in natural science, thus that the procedure of the one can never be imitated by that of the other."
"This univer sality, as the quality of beillg recognized, is the moment which makes isolated and abstract needs, means, and modes of satisfaction into cOllcrete, ie social ones."
"ble and even creditable to come to the aid of the good cause with spu rious grounds rather than"
"of the organism; this is thereby in itself universal, or it is genus."
"(The inquiry into the ground of the possibility of such a natural purposiveness will, however, first come under discussion in the analysis of teleology.)"
"Because every external relation, and consequently also every composition made of substances, is possible only in space, the composite thing must consist of as many parts as the space that it occupies"
"Still,' someone might reply, 'you are simply surrendering to the stronger of the drives that are present within you.'"
"inasmuch as it differs from this unity, but is only the identity of itself and its negation, it essentially refers to this identity as an immediacy external to it and one which it has as presupposition and condition."
"Time is therefore merely a subjective condition of our (human) intuition (which is always sensible,.e., insofar as we are affected by objects), and in itself, outside the subject, is nothing."
"This result is therefore the truth."
"It is the consciousness of the loss of all essential being in this certainty of itself, and of the loss even of this knowledge about itself the loss of substance as well as of the Self, it is the grief which expresses itself in the hard saying that 'God is dead'."
"this picture thought comes later, in the externalization of the divine Being who is made flesh."
"The previously only implicit identity, the substrate, is therefore now determined as presupposition or posited as against the efficient causality, and the reflection hitherto only external to the identity is now in relation to it."
", that from a living human being one must always ascend in the series of his ancestors without ever expecting a first pair, or in the series of bodies in the world without admitting an outermost sun; on the contrary, what is required is only the progress from appearances to appearances, even if they should not yield any actual perception (if this perception is too weak in degree to become an experience for our consciousness), because despite this they would still belong to possible experience."
"The problem takes with him the form of a task, of drawing straight lines perpendicularly to given points on a curve in order in this way to determine the subtangent, etc."
"which the soul actua Princip vague principle Princip being of reason reasoned, .e.,"
"From the side of the objective world presupposed for it (in the presupposition of which consists the subjectivity and the finitude of the good, and which as a distinct world runs its own course), the realization itself of the good is exposed to obstacles, indeed, might even be made impossible."
"But according to the indicated prohibition of the moral law I am not permitted to modify such objects in this manner."
"what exists as yet only in itself does ot uman being who is rational itl hi wOrkthrOugli tlle process of self production both by going out Of himself and by educating himself inwardly, in order that he may also become rational for himself."
"Everywhere we see a chain of effects and causes, of ends and means, regularity in coming to be and perishing, and because nothing has entered by itselfb into the state in which it finds itself, this state always refers further to another thing as its cause, which makes necessary just the same further inquiry, so that in such a way the entire wholec would have to sink into the abyss of nothingness if one did not assume something subsisting for itself originally and in dependently outside this infinite contingency, which supports it and at the same time, as the cause of its existence, secures its continuation."
"Hence it is that a youthful poet refuses to allow himself to be dissuaded from the conviction that his poem is beautiful, either by the judgement of the public or of his friends."
"This is because the moral law absolutely obliges me to cultivate him to the standpoint of morality as well and to assist in the effort to improve him."
"But this is an essential factor, if an aptitude for ends is to have its full meaning."
"Such an occupation is related to the preservation and free activity of moral beings, and it is thereby sanctified just as much as the highest occupation."
"Since Hume is perhaps the most ingenious of all skeptics, and is in controvertibly the preeminent one with regard to the influence that the skeptical procedure can have on awakening a thorough examination of reason, it is well worth the trouble to make clear, to the extent that is appropriate to my aim, the path of his inferences and the aberrations of such an insightful and valuable man, which nevertheless began on the trail of truth."
"Inasmuch as the immediate connection of these moments of quantity finds expression in the essential relation of whole and parts the one of quantity being part, and its continuity the whole which is composed of parts the antinomy consists in the contradiction that was incurred, and was resolved, in conjunction with the relation of whole and parts."
"Its nature has been found to consist in this, that the coefficient of the term of the expansion, the so called first function, is obtained from an equation of power functions, and the relation which this first function represents is demonstrated in moments of the concrete subject matter, and these moments are themselves determined by the equation thereby obtained between the two relations."
"It is to this second aspect that Kant's philosophical interest is exclusively directed."
"For this involves a kind of causality that we cannot associate with the mere concept of a nature unless we make that nature rest on an underlying end, but which can then, though incomprehensible, be thought without contradiction."
"(It is through this successive series of reflections that time first arises for us along with the identity of consciousness over the course of time.)"
", no high est being?"
"where then is the contradiction supposed to come from?"
"The precise difference between any two may be had merely quantitatively as a difference in a body of diverse magnitudes of mass, or of intensity, or in various other ways."
"Now as regards this classification according to clarity, it immediately transpires that this standpoint and its connected distinctions are taken from psychological and not logical determinations."
"In this, however, as in the other properties, number is the sole determinateness, and this not only does not express a relation between these properties and a transition from one to another, but is essentially just the absence of any necessary relation and it represents rather the abolition of all conformity to law; for it is the expression of a determinateness that is unessential."
"For the highest officials within the state necessarily have a more profound and comprehensive insight into the nature of the state's institutions and needs, and are more familiar with its functions and more skilled in dealing with them, so that they are able to do what is best even without the Estates, just as they must continue to do what is best when the Estates are in session."
"True, it is thus no longer the insubstantial process of consciousness, but it still has the characteristic of an antithesis to actuality as this actuality in general, and of an antithesis to self consciousness in particular."
"The antinomy ofpure reas"
"This qualitative side thus has a quantum for the presupposition from which it starts."
"Kant prints the word in German type but declines it in the Latin genitive: Quanti."
"Being and essence relate to each other in this fashion as again others in general which are mutually indifferent, for each has a being, an immediacy, and according to this being they stand in equal value."
"For although wealth is, for consciousness, the deposed universal, the latter has not yet by this first subjection returned absolutely into the self."
"chairs of metaphysics at least have been allowed to lapse)."
"Even idle reflection may conclude that every legal code is capable of improvement, for it is possible to imagine what is most glorious, exalted, and beautiful as being more glorious, exalted, and beautiful still."
"Since, then, all idea of an absolute content must be given up, it can only claim a formal universality; or that it is not seW contradictory."
"Conversely, to each abstract moment of Science corresponds a shape of manifest Spirit as such."
"But that in fact the alleged mere summation contains in itself a multiplication, therefore the transition from the linear to the two dimensional determination, appears in the simplest form in the way in which, for instance, it is shown that the area of a trapezium is equal to the product of the sum of the two opposite parallel lines and half the height."
"Thus he does not take it amiss if, when he says that Canary wine is agreeable, another corrects the expression and reminds him that he ought to say: It is agreeable to me."
"ibm, whose only natural referent grammatically would be anthropomorphism Wille suggests that the text be amended to read ibr, making the referent the world cause."
"The general qualitative character of the form of magnitude here under discussion, as demonstrated in what in that form is called the infinitesimal, is most immediately found in the category of limit of the ratio referred to abo and, when carried out in calculus, has received the stamp of a method of its own."
"But do you de mand then that a cognition that pertains to all human beings should surpass common understanding and be revealed to you only by philoso phers?"
"mDre immediately th.e contrast between the univer as a theory and that with which practice is concerned; there is exposed the cDmplete eJ,TlancipatiDn of the purpDses of the immediate individuality from the universal order, and the contempt Df such an individuality for that order."
"Just as the light of nature is not a something, nor is it a thing, but its being is rather only its shining, so manifestation is self identical absolute actuality."
"Here we begin with a function considered as derived, as the coefficient of the first term resulting from the expansion of an equation as yet however unknown, and the original power function is to be derived from it; the function which in the natural order of expansion would have to be considered as original is here derived, and the one previously considered as derived is here the one given, or in general the one to start with."
"Such marks are either words or visible (algebraic or even mimetic) signs, simply as expressions for concepts."
"The highest perfection in substance,.e., God, and consequently as external, is (as considered for a practical aim) the adequacy of this being to all purpos as such."
"movement, which by no means comes to it from outside but rather resists the direction that it receives from outside."
"Bell, reprinted, New York: Garland Pub.,."
"For any determinateness placed in the simple substance (whose nature is to be simple) is inadequate to it."
"this is always the case then, to this extent, the object and subject of the drive do not belong to the I, but are opposed to it."
"The former is the first unreflected immediacy; the latter, the reflected immediacy; further, each is explicitly a totality, but a determinate totality."
"The formal objects have for their essence the identical gravity of their immediate central body in which they inhere as in their subject and the extreme of singularity; through the externality which they constitute, this immediate central body is subsumed under the absolute central body; they therefore are the formal middle term of particularity."
"It is not a product of nature; it occurs simply because it occurs, because I am I."
"The mDvement Dfthis abstraction is the consciousness of the dialectic contained in these maxims and laws themselves, and, consequently, the consciDusness of the vanishing Df"
"It is mostly because of this subjective attire that the inference appears as a subjective expedient in which reason or understanding take refuge when they are incapable of immediate cognition."
"This took place with Roman institutions, as already mentioned (see Remarks to, and with the old feudal law, etc."
"the Critique of Judgment, Ak., the Critique of Pure Reason,"
"For how can any experience be given that is supposed to be adequate to an idea?"
"This number, however, really indicates the indifference and freedom of the universal and the individual in relation to one another; the genus puts the individual at the mercy of the non essential quantitative difference, but the individual itself, qua living individual, 'equally shows itself to befree."
"as the concept of absolute freedom."
"A A iB them before one's eyes in a scholastically correct way."
"Vorstellung that everyone should participate in the concerns of everyone is all expert such matters; this is also absurd, notwithstanding"
"I ought to view a particular duty as a means for accomplishing the universal duty of all human beings, and absolutely not as a end in its own right and in fulfilling the particular obligations of my estate and profession"
"In the first case, the subject of the drive and the one who actually acts will be in harmony, and then there will arise a feeling of approval things are right,"
"We found that a law existed when the relation was such that the universal organic property in an organic system had made itself into a Thing, and in this Thing had a structurtid copy ofitsdf, so that both were the same being, pres nt in the one case as a universal moment, and in the other, as a Thing."
"I take it up then as it is in truth, and instead of knowing some thing immediate I take the truth of it, or perceive it."
"We laugh at the simplicity that is as yet a stranger to dissimulation, but we rejoice the while over the simplicity of nature that thwarts that art."
"For just as in the judging of the beautiful imagination and understanding by their concord generate a subjective purposiveness of the mental faculties, so imagination and reason"
"The term a concept of reason, however, already shows in a provi sional way that such a concept will not let itself be limited to experience, because it deals with a cognition (perhaps the whole of possible experience or its empirical synthesis) of which the empirical is only one part; no actual experience is fully sufficient for it, but every experience be longs to it."
"The judgement of taste rests upon a priori grounds To determine a priori the connexion of the feeling of pleasure or displeasure as an effect, with some representation or other (sensation or concept) as its cause, is utterly impossible; for that would be a causal relation which (with objects of experience) is always one that can only be cognized a posteriori and with the help of experience."
"Thus under the guidance of those principles we come to a unity of genera in the forms of these paths, but thereby also further to unity in the cause of all the laws of this motion (gravitation); from there we extend our conquests, seeking to explain all variations and apparent deviations from those rules on the basis of the same"
"Of course, the further manifoldness is necessarily present in the Thing too, so that it cannot be left out; but it is the unessential aspect of the Thing."
"The particular history of a world historical nation contains, on the one hand, the development of its principle from its latent eingehiill childhood phase until it blossoms out in free ethical self consciousness and makes its mark in universal history, and on the other, the period of its decline and fall for these denote the emergence within it of a higher principle which is simply the negative of its own./"
"In this context, the Kantian philosophy incurs a further inconsequence by borrowing the categories for the transcendental logic, as so called root concepts, from the subjective logic where they were assumed empirically."
"It is reflection that makes the True a result, but it is equally reflection that overcomes the antithesis between the process of its becoming and the result, for this becoming is also simple, and therefore not different from the form of the True which shows itself as simple in its result; the process of becoming is rather just this return into simplicity."
"The divergences from the first will be marked with notes and brackets."
"Here it is also quite unnecessary to prove that an intellectus archetypus like this is possible."
"The conditions of sensible intuition, which bring with them their own distinctions, he did not regard as orig inal; for sensibility was only a confused kind of representation for him, and not a special source of representations; for him appearance was the representation of the thing in itself, although distinguished from cognition through the understanding in its logical form, since with its cus tomary lack of analysis the former draws a certain mixture of subsidiary representations into the concept of the thing, from which the understanding knows how to abstract."
"The moral proof of the existence of God"
"It is certainly the case that the individual eillzeltle person is a subordinate entity who must dedicate himself to the ethical whole."
", that is itself the source of this derangement and perv(rsion,and the outcome of its actipn is merely that its cons iousne!)s becomes aware of this contradiction."
"Since, however, in this philosophical and critical age such an empiricism can scarcely be taken seriously, and is presumably being put forth only as an exercise for judgment and in order to put the necessity of rational a priori principles in a clearer light by contrast, one may still be grateful to those who want to take the trouble to do this otherwise indeed uninstructive work."
"In this manner there arises for the reflecting I"
"dNo one can define the concept of magnitude in general except by something like this: That it is the determination of a thing through which it can be thought how many units are posited in it."
"Even what appears to man to be contrary to nature in his own internal organization affords, when treated on these lines, an interesting, and sometimes even instructive, outlook into a teleological order of things, to which mere unaided study from a physical point of view apart from such a principle would not lead us."
"but yet ultimately to necessary and essential ends of hu manity, but only through the mediation of a rational cognition from mere concepts, which, call it what one will, is really nothing but meta physics."
"The fact that I recognize only what I had an idea"
"This achievement is of the greatest importance for public freedom and for a rational constitution, although it is often very poorly understood as we earlier noticed even if it is treated with respect."
"This at once affords a convenient opportunity for condemning and directing particular attention to a prevalent confusion of the double meaning of which the word 'sensation' is capable."
"The relation of love between man and wife is not yet an objective one; for even if this feeling Empfindllllg is their substantial unity, this unity does not yet possess objectivity Gegenstiindlichkeit."
"time known to be necessary) should not end my inquiries, but is rather the The discipline of pure reason in polemical use proper cause to arouse them."
"On the possibility of a critique of pure reason."
"whatever it might be) always grows, but it must be possible to bring it"
"But it also defines for us a final end, and does so a priori, and makes it obligatory upon us to strive towards its attainment."
"It is so not only insofar as it can always be cognized merely empirically, but also insofar as it affects one and the same vital force manifesting itself in our power of desire, and in this regard can differ from any other determining basis in nothing but degree."
", it conceals from itself the disgracefulness of the irrational, crude thought which takes a bone for the reality of sdf.consciousness;"
"Properly speaking, if we are at all able to will something then we are also able to do it; for the most part, however, we are not able to do it all at once but only in a certain order."
", A. Existenz here, Dasein above and below."
"Dead mechanism was the mechanical process of objects above considered that immediately appeared as self subsisting, but precisely for that reason are in truth nonself subsistent and have their center outside them; this process that passes over into rest exhibits either contingency and indeterminate difference or formal uniformity."
"But this idea is an absolute unity of the representation, whereas the material is a plurality of things that of itself can afford no definite unity of composition."
"Inasmuch as this theory in which the phenomena of electricity and of chemism are fully identified deals with things physical and not just with ratios of magnitude, we need not consider it here in close detail; we only have to bring it up inasmuch as it confuses the principle for differentiating the determinations of magnitude."
"For I do not need to go outside the conceptC that I combine with the word body in order to find that extension is con nected with it, but rather I need only to analyze that concept,.e., be come conscious of the manifold that I always think in it, in order to encounter this predicate therein; it is therefore an analytic judgment."
"Instead, however, these same opponents presuppose precisely what is here being denied:"
"No one has ever yet questioned the correctness of the principle that when judging certain things in nature, namely organisms and their possibility, we must look to the concept of final causes."
"Yet before I conclude this provisional introduction, I entreat those who take philosophy to heart (which means more than is commonly supposed), if they find themselves convinced by this and the following discussion, to take care to preserve the expression idea in its original meaning, so that it will not henceforth fall among the other expressions by which all sorts of representations are denoted in careless disorder, to the detriment of science."
"This pleasure is also in no way practical, neither resembling that from the pathological ground of agreeableness nor that from the intellectual ground of the represented good."
"Or 'practical ability': praktisches Verm gen."
"The individual, whose duties give him the status of a subject Unter finds that, in fulfilling his duties as a citizen, he gains protection for his person and property, consideration for his particular welfare, satisfaction of his substantial essence, and the consciousness and self awareness of being a member of a whole."
"See general remark (E )' Object Object Following Erdmann, reading ihres for seines."
"On the Antithesis If one supposes that difficulties are to be encountered in ascending in a series of appearances to the existence of an absolutely necessary cause, then these difficulties must not be grounded on the mere concepts of the necessary existence of a thing, hence they cannot be merely ontological, but must arise from the causal connection with a series of appearances, when it tries to assume a condition which is itself unconditioned, thus they must be cosmological and based on empirical laws."
"Our preservation is by no means the final end; only the fulfillment of the moral law is the final end."
"Formally, it is determined to determine itself as such; it can never be undetermined, as a free being might well be."
"Nodes and leaps of this kind occur in chemical combinations as the proportions in the mixtures are progressively altered; at certain points on the scale of mixtures, two materials yield products that exhibit particular qualities."
"The highest can mean either the supre (supremum) or the comple (consummatum)."
"With a thing that owes its possibility to a purpose, a building, or even an animal, its regularity, which consists in symmetry, must express the unity of the intuition accompanying the concept of its end, and belongs with it to cognition."
"On the contrary it is the worth which he alone can give to himself, and which consists in what he does in the manner in which and the principles upon which he acts in the freedom of his faculty of desire, and not as a link in the chain of nature."
"But this kind of pleasure has nothing to do with enjoyment."
"Here we are not thinking of any particular individuals, but of humanity in its entirety."
"What does it mean to be active, and what do I really posit when I ascribe activity to myself?"
"Transcendental Doctrine"
"The good or the universal, then, as it comes to view there, is what are called gifts, capacities, powers."
"I am confronted with an other which is only contingent and only externally necessary, and which may either coincide with or be at variance with me."
"The formal totality of an object in general a totality indifferent to determinateness and hence not a self determination renders the object indistinct from another object and thus makes interaction at first an unimpeded continuing of the determinateness of the one into the other."
"So how can I guarantee that the result of my reasoning has not been falsified by my individuality?"
"For since this consciousness is divided within itself, having a beyond of the real world anda world that is altogether this side of the world beyond, thereis, as a matter of fact, also ,present in it this view of the thing of sense according to which it counts as a being that is in (:lnd for itself; hut faith does not bring together these two thoughts of absolute Being, which is for it at one time pure essence and at another time an ordinary thing of sense."
"In the first place, that inner aspect ofshape as the simple sin arity of an inorganic thing is specific gravity."
", that it can on its own, independently of everything empirical, determine the will; specifically, it establishes this through a fa wherein pure reason does indeed prove itself in us practically,"
"a -a then contrariwise +a -a"
"a. absolute indifference Being is abstract indifference, and when this trait is to be thought by itself as being, the abstract expression 'indifferentness' has been used in which there is not supposed to be as yet any kind of determinateness."
"What belongs only to the state of a substance, even if it has a magnitude (e.g., alteration), does not, therefore, consist of the simple,.e."
"For this reason governments have gladly let religion be fully equipped with these accessories, seeking in this way to relieve their subjects of the exertion, but to deprive them, at the same time, of the ability, required for expanding their spiritual powers beyond the limits arbitrarily laid down for them, and this makes it all the easier to treat them as though they were merely passive."
"If he were perhaps to ask himself, See Kant, Religion Within the Boundaries of Mere Reason, in Kant, Religion and Rational Theology, ed. and trans."
"We saw in the preceding chapter that everything that offers itself as object of the will prior to the moral law is excluded from the determining bases of the will the will under the name of the unconditionally good by this law itself as the supreme condition of practical reason; and we saw that the mere practical form, which consists in the suitability of maxims for universal legislation, first determines what is good in itself and absolutely and is the basis for the maxim of a pure will, such a will alone being good in every respect."
"It follows from the preceding remark, however, that every arbitrary end is at the same time an original one; or, to put it more clearly"
"For, when it is pure, it combines delight or aversion immediately with the bare contemplation of the object irrespective of its use or of any end."
", I find that weight is also always connected with the previous marks, dand I there fore add this synthetically as predicate to that concept It is thus expe rience Con which the possibility of the synthesis of the predicate of weight with the concept of body is grounded, since both concepts, though the one is not contained in the other, nevertheless belong to gether, though only contingently, as parts of a whole, namely experi ence, which is itself a synthetic combination of intuitions."
"But, in that harmony, morality qua consciousness, Le."
"The principle that authorizes us to draw this inference lies in the fact that we have exactly the same reason for putting the lower animals in this respect in the same genus with human beings as in man for putting human beings, so far as we look at them from the outside and compare their acts, in the same genus with one another."
"Synthetic unity of the manifold of in tuitions, as given a priori, is thus the ground of the identity of ap perception itself, which precedes a priori all my determinate thinking."
"The determination of reflection is on the contrary positedness as negation negation which has negatedness for its ground, is therefore not unequal to itself within itself, and hence essential rather than transient determinateness."
"is only another consequence of the principle of persistence, or rather of the everlasting existence of the proper subject in the appearances."
"When we speak of the determinate concept, what we ordinarily mean is precisely just this abstract universal."
"This can easily have the effect that the profit which the author or inventive entrepreneur expected from his work or new idea is elimin ated, reduced for both parties, or ruined for everyone.a"
"Being for itself repulsion, in inverse quantitative ratio, so that the one increases as the other decreases), one should expect that the phenomenon of motion, for whose explanation they were assumed, and the phenomenon of their inequality, be precisely the result of them."
"For if we were capable also of another view (a view which, to be sure, has not been bestowed upon us at all, but in place of which we have only the rational concept), viz., an intellectual intuiti of the same subject, then we would nonethele become aware that this entire chain of appearances depends, with regard to whatever can be of concern to the moral law, on the spontaneity of the subject as a thing in itself a spontaneity for the determination of which no physical explanation can be given at all."
"In order to have a con ten once again, something new must be taken over from elsewhere."
"But this is the syllogism of induction."
"either being.for itself or pure being in itself, for both areequallyessentialrnoments."
"As a consequence the former is alone admissible for fine art."
"But this abstract good, being completely lacking in content, can be wholly reduced simply to meaning anything positive at all anything, that is, which has any kind of validity and which, in its immediate determination, may even count as an essential end (such as doing good to the poor, or caring for myself, my life, my family, etc."
"Just as the One is posited here in combination with being, so is being, which should be held fast abstracted by itself in the simplest form without entering into thought, exhibited in a combination that entails the opposite of what should be asserted."
"Hofmann (Hildesheim: Georg Olms, pp."
"the judgment of existence"
"In the latter connexion its principles are called laws, and these principles, with the addition of what follows from them, alone constitute the second or practical part of philosophy."
"The former naturally precedes the latter."
"In the ratio now before us, the exponent as the determining quantum is thus posited as negative towards itself as a quantum of the ratio, and hence as qualitative, as limit; the result is that the qualitative moment distinctly comes to the fore for itself as against the quantitative moment."
"It is in fact in the Jife of a people or nation that the Notion of self conscious Reason's actualization of beholding, in the independence of the 'other', complete unity with it, or having for my object the free thinghood of an 'other' which confronts me and is the negative of myself, as my own being for myself that the Notion has its complete reality."
"When it is recognized and guaranteed by society, this particular part of the world, the part that is subject to my ends, is called my property."
"That means: in going back to the conditions of existing I can never complete the existing without assuming a necessary being,d"
"A thermore, if one is beyond the circle of experience, then one is sure not to be contradicted through experience."
"Proof Suppose that either the world itself is a necessary being or that there is such a being in it; then in the series of its alterations either there would be a beginning that is unconditionally necessary, and hence without a cause, which conflicts with the dynamic law of the determination of all appearances in time; or else the series itself would be without any be ginning, and,"
"If a sign is required, the presumption is that the a is positive."
"Self consciousness which, onthewhole, knowsitselfto be reality, has its object in its own self, but as an object which ini."
"Thus the application of differential calculus to the elementary equations of motion is not by itself of any real interest; the formal interest comes from See Lagrange, Theorie des fonctions analytiques, Part Chapter."
"But in this way, by sending an object as a means ahead of it, it lets it do the slavish work of externality in its stead, abandons it to the wear and tear while preserving itself behind it against mechanical violence."
"By so doing, it makes itself into the universal which is the unity of itself and its other."
"Flowers, blossoms, even the shapes of plants as a whole, the elegance of animal formations of all kinds, unnecessary for the discharge of any function on their part, but chosen as it were with an eye to our taste; and, beyond all else, the variety and harmony in the array of colours (in the pheasant, in crustacea, in insects, down even to the meanest <U+FB02>owers), so pleasing and charming to the eyes, but which, inasmuch as they touch the bare surface, and do not even here in any way affect the structure, of these creatures a matter which might have a necessary bearing on their internal ends seem to be designed entirely with a view to outward appearance: all these lend great weight to the mode of explanation which assumes actual ends of nature in favour of our aesthetic judgement."
"One syllogism of existence has its presupposition in the other syllogism of existence."
"Consciousness, then, does not start from its inner life, from thought, and unite within itself the thought of God with existence; on the contrary, it starts from an existence that is immediately present and recognizes God therein."
"For reason has an end which is prescribed independently by its own peculiar legislation."
"Principien Object Phenomena and Noumena doctrine (e.g., the principle of causality), must give way to the modest one of a mere analytic of the pure understanding."
"Such a purely moral being is therefore again a dissemblance of the facts, and has to be given up."
"Thus the metaphysics of nature as well as morals, but above all the preparatory (propaedeutic) critique of reason that dares to fly with its own wings, alone constitute that which we can call philosophy in a gen uine sense.'"
"Though where they came from, none of us can tell."
"root of all individuality.'"
"Ak. Literally, 'driver of the soul."
"The declaration of this assurance in itself rids the form of its particularity."
"What necessity truly is in self consciousness, it is for this new form of self consciousness, in which it knows'its own self to be the principle"
"The proximate diremption of this unity is the judgment in which the unity is posited first as subject, as an immediate singular, and then as predicate, as the determinate connection of its moments."
"If we consider the matter with narrower reference to the hypothetical syllogism, we find that there was in the latter a substantial identity as the inner bond of necessity, and a negative unity distinct from it, namely the activity or the form that translated one existence into another."
"if All these substantial determinations are duties which are binding on the will of the individual; for the individual, as subjective and inherently undetermined or determined in a particular way is distinct from them and consequently stands in a relationship to them as to his own substantial being."
"First of all, it can never occur to anyone with a moral disposition to employ compulsory means in order to make human beings virtuous by announcing rewards or punishments, which will either be dispensed by oneself, as for example in the case of the state, or by some other overpowering ruler, or which one promises or threatens in the name of an almighty being, whose confidence one claims to enjoy."
"Not until he has property does the person exist as reason."
"We will call this formal and pure condition of the sensibility, to which the use of the concept of the understanding is restricted, the schema of this concept of the understanding, and we will call the procedure of the understanding with these schemata the schematism of the pure understanding."
"Once you have posited the thing's nature, however, you then proceed in your thinking from one being (the thing's nature) to another being (its manifestation under a certain condition), and you do so through nothing but being, by way of a continuous series."
"The proper beginning and original foundation of states has rightly been equated vith the introduction of agriculture and of marriage."
"In the concept, therefore, the kingdom of freedom is disclosed."
"I will not pause for the exposition of such readily grasped concepts."
"The image of the progression in infinity is the straight line; the infinite is only at the two limits of this line, and always only is where the latter (which is existence) is not but transcends itself, in its non existence, that is, in the indeterminate."
"The in finite judgement, qua infinite, would be the fulfilme of life that comprehends itself; the consciousness of the infinite judge ment that remains at the level of picture thinking behaves as urination."
"There is no more appropriate manner in which I could end this book than by calling attention to this chief point upon which the improvement of our species, as the final end of all ethics, rests."
"The consciousness which sets up the law of its heart therefore meets with resistance from others, because it contradicts the equally individual laws of their hearts and these others in their resistance are doing nothing else but setting up and claiming validity for their own law."
"This indifferent multifarious relating concludes at the same time by cutting itself off as an exclusive being for itself the so called elective affinity."
"yield a great multitude of derivative a priori concepts, to take note of which and, as far as possible, completely catalogue would be a useful and not unpleasant but"
"Nature appears in this case to have withdrawn the possibility that both of our lives can exist together."
"Such concepts of reason are not created by nature, rather we question nature according to these ideas, and we take our cognition to be defective as long as it is not adequate to them."
"And with this we are back at the previous determination, which has been sublated in vain."
"The truth for consciousness of a This of sense is supposed to be universal experience; but the very opposite is universal experience."
"all of these have their determinate signifi cance and value in the sphere of conscious actuality, in which judge ment and justice albeit imperfect justice are meted out to them."
"In this context, my usual rendering of this term as 'acquaintance' or 'familiarity' might be misleading."
"Fichte, The Science of Knowledge, pp. ."
"For the difference in the latter makes a great difference in the way in which one ought to think of the former."
"But the equations between these lines and the coordinates are linear equations; the wholes, of which these lines are determined as parts, are right angled triangles formed by straight lines."
"This Spirit can be called the human law, because it is essentially in the form of a reality that is conscious of itself."
"This is the judgment, therefore, that first contains true adjudication; the predicates, 'good,' 'bad,' 'true,' 'right,' etc., express that the fact is measured against the concept as an ought which is simply presupposed, and is, or is not, in agreement with it."
"a will as self consciousness, which finds an external world outside itself."
"Or more precisely, the shot is not the cause at all, but only a single moment that pertained to the circumstances of the possibility."
"This happens first in itself through itself, in that the cause makes itself into an effect; its negative determination disappears in this identity and the cause becomes passive; and, second, it happens through the hitherto passive, but now reacting substance, which sublates its effect."
"considered without the Notion of the inner difference, then space and time, or distance and velocity, which appear as moments of gravity, arejust as indifferent and without a necessary relation to one another as to gravity itself, or) as this simple gravity is indifferent to them, or, again, as simple electricity is indifferent to positive and negative electricity."
"(Most suicides occur during an attack of mindlessness, and nothing reasonable can be said about such a state.)"
"Representation of the antinomy of taste The first commonplace concerning taste is contained in the proposition under cover of which everyone devoid of taste thinks to shelter himself from reproach: everyone has his own taste."
"For then it would itself be subject to the natural law of appearances, to the extent that this law determines causal series in time, and its causal The real morality of actions (their merit and guilt), even that of our own con duct, therefore remains entirely hidden from us."
"But it may not only be generally the case that the good is the actual intention; it must in fact always be so if we adopt the point of view that the abstract good is the determining ground of the subject."
"The reason is that in the case of organisms we have already represented to ourselves a causality according to ends a creative understanding to account for their intrinsic purposiveness, and have referred this active faculty to its determining ground, the design."
"One might say, 'I, for my own part, do not want to commit any injustices,' but this is an egotistical way of talking."
"Sensibility gives us forms (of intuition), but the understanding gives us rules."
"The subjectivity of the monarch is in itself abstract, but it should be concrete in character as the ideality which pervades the whole."
"Finally, associated with these a priori grounds of the possibility of forms, we also find the following products corresponding to them: Faculties of the mind"
"But a nothingness or that which is void of essence does not have its being in an other in which it shines, but its being is its own equality with itself; this conversion of the negative with itself has been determined as the absolute reflection of essence."
"The propensity to indulge in them is sentimentality."
"August Faust and Will Erich Peuckert (Stuttgart: Fr."
"I is therefore the consciousness of indepen."
"If I am to go beyondg"
"Conscience has not given up pure duty or the abstract in itself; duty is the essential moment of relating itself, qUf!, universality, to another."
"The Transcendental Doctrine ofMethod Third Chapter"
"If the question is second whether this being is substance, of the greatest reality, necessary, etc., then I answer that this question has no significance at all."
"The empirical derivation,however, to which both of them resorted, cannot reconciled with the reality of the scientific cognition a priori that we possess, that namely of pure mathematics and general natural science, and is therefore refuted by the fact.a"
"Thus every syllogism is a form of derivation of a cognition from a principle."
"Further, just as modulation is, as it were, a universal language of sensations intelligible to every human being, so the art of tone wields the full force of this language wholly on its own account, namely, as a language of the affects, and in this way, according to the law of association, universally communicates the aesthetic ideas that are naturally combined therewith."
"What is the change that is supposed to ensue thereby in the sensible world?"
"Ratio or the quantitative relation."
", .Finally, as regards the ambush from which the intrin.sically good is to attack the 'way of the world' cunningly from the rear, this is essentially a vain hope."
"There is more nature outside of my own nature, and the former is posited precisely in order to explain the determination of my nature."
"For each of these parts, however, it is also the case that the relationship between its reality and its drive cannot be explained from itself, for otherwise it would not be a part of a real whole."
"It therefore posits dis la ls within itself which are thus determined by the concept These distinctions give the ethical a fixed ltrot which is necessary for itself, and whose existence Bestehro is exalted above subjective opinions and preferences: they are laws ld institutions which have being in ldfor themselves."
"What I become or do not become from this point on, however, depends purely and simply and completely on me alone."
"In nature the understanding can cognize only what exists, or has been, or will be."
"However, the period of fermentation that goes with the beginning of every new creation seems to be past."
"The object, therefore, has neither properties nor accidents, for these are separable from the thing or the substance, whereas in the object particularity is absolutely reflected into the totality."
"Observation stands, therefore, within what it imagines to be Spirit, and within the contingent relation of conscious reality to a reality that is not conscious."
"Objekt here, Gegenstand above and below."
"scribes the course of its progress unhindered and with scope for free play, leads of necessity equally to its opposite, to the confusion of these determinatenesses"
"This persis tent thing, however, cannot be something in me, since my own existence in time can first be determined only through this persistent thing.a"
"This productive activity, however, is not a perfect but a conditioned, activity, the fashioning of a material already to hand."
"I call all subjective principles that are taken not from the constitution of the objectC but from the interest of reason in regard to a certain pos sible perfection of the cognition of this object, maxims of reason."
"The law, as the relation of that inner to this outer, thus expresses its content, once by setting forth universal moments or simple essentialities, and again by settingforth the actualized essentiality or shape."
"For where civil laws, the right of individual persons, or the permanent instruction and determination of people's minds to a correct knowledge and a conscientious observance of their duty is at stake, then it is below the dignity of an undertaking of such import to exhibit even a trace of the exuberance of wit and imagination, and, still more, of the art of talking people round and prejudicing them in favour of anyone."
"The outcome of the movement of the determinate relation of causality is then this, that the cause does not just expire in the effect, and thereby the effect as well, as in formal causality, but that by expiring in the effect the cause comes to be again; that the effect vanishes in the cause, but equally comes to be again in it."
"It is fair to suppose, therefore, when we think of the fundamental determinations which constitute the nature of the 'I,' that we are referring to something familiar, that is, a commonplace of ordinary thinking."
"(E. a Zahlverhdltnis Zusammensetzung"
"Leibniz, one which he conceived in his youth and, despite its immaturity and shallowness, never abandoned even in later life."
"Thus let your opponent speak only reason, and fight him solely with weapons of reason."
"Though different things may agree in a common characteristic, the variety of forms in which they may be presented to our perception is contingent."
"Then you have surrendered to the devil And must surely perish."
"Both of these are immediate commands of the moral law: the first, when one considers this law in general or as such; the second, when one considers a particular manifestation of the same."
"Three kinds of determinacy are involved in the concept of duty when it is thought of in any determinate case, and it can lose each of these three types of determinacy."
"Their distinction is therefore completely empty, each is as indeterminate as the other; the distinction depends, therefore, not on them but on a third element, on intention."
"present as their objective universality which Addition (H)."
"For it is always only an idea, which is by no means related directly to a being different from the world, but rather referred to the regulative principled of the world's systematic unity, but only by means of a schema of that unity, namely of a supreme intelligence that is its author through wise intentions."
"In the form and content in which it is found in the textbooks, it must be said that it has fallen into disrepute."
"Furthermore, this standard may be empirical, as, let us say, the average size of the men known to us, of animals of a certain kind, of trees, of houses, of mountains, and so forth."
"Vorstellzmgen of stimuli and the strength of sensuous motives"
"Dasein in the thing as somethirig<U+FFFD>"
"In this way the universality is determined as genus and species."
"Agility pertains only to what is subjective, to intelligence as such, with respect to the form of its acting."
"As the motive of desires the agreeable is invariably of one and the same kind, no matter what its source or how specifically different the representation (of sense and sensation objectively considered)."
"one of its determinations is laid down as ground at one time, and another determination at another time, both with equal necessity."
"The insight into these ideas would make theology, morals, and, through their combination, religion, thus the highest ends of our existence, dependent solely on the faculty of speculative reason and on nothing else."
"If the latter harmonizes with the former, then the drive is satisfied; if they are not in harmony, then the drive remains unsatisfied."
"This is because I respect that against which I must muster all of my energy simply in order to maintain an equilibrium; but I do not respect that against which no such expenditure of energy is required."
"Now inasmuch as in the formal syllogism, in keeping with the qualitative nature of the terms, the concrete is taken according to one of the single determinations that pertain to it, the syllogistic inference assigns to it the predicate corresponding to this middle term; but inasmuch as from another side the opposite determinateness is inferred, the previous conclusion turns out to be false, even though its premises and equally so its consequences are by themselves quite correct."
"The qualitative difference that constitutes the determinateness of number is, as we have seen, that of unit and amount; every conceptual determinateness possible in the operations of calculation is reduced, therefore, to these two."
"The ground connection of the content determinations in the second something is thus mediated through the connection present in the first something."
"For my own part, from now on I cannot let myself become involved in controversies, although I shall attend carefully to all hints, whether they come from friends or from opponents, so that I may utilize them, in accordance with this propaedeutic, in the future execution of the system."
"an explicitheing of its own by sacrificing the universal."
"But this argument seems to go beyond what it was intended to prove."
"This is manifest, quite in general, in every natural, scientific, and spiritual development, and it is essential to recognize that because something is at first only an inner or also in its concept, as a first it is for that reason only its immediate passive existence."
"We may pose the reasonable question: What is the use of our basing all these arrangements on a great, and for us unfathomable, intelligence, and supposing it to order this world according to its intentions, if nature does not and cannot ever tell us anything as to the final aim in view?"
"This purposiveness of forms can be called figurative, and the technic of nature with respect to these forms can also be designated accordingly (technica speciosa)."
"Below, 'action' translates Handlung."
"In the former meaning, the conclusion is that 'the being of the finite is the being of the absolute'; but in the latter, that 'the non being of the finite is the being of the absolute.'"
"The sense in which external existence is made the criterion of the truth of a content is for its part just as one sided as when This will happen in the Subjective Logic, when the logical object assumes the form of 'concept' the idea, the essence, or even inner feeling, is represented as indifferent to external existence and is even held to be all the more estimable"
"Because the falling is a sensible movement, it is the ratio of space and time; but first, that time refers to space and space to time does not lie in the determination of time itself, that is to say, in time as ordinarily represented; it is said that time can very well be represented without space and space without time; the one thus comes to the other externally, and their external reference to each other is movement."
"Therefore one cannot ask: Why has reason not determined itself otherwise?"
"Space is the subjective form. ."
"Ideal entities and purposes of this kind are empty, ineffectual words which lift up the heart but leave reason unsatisfied, which edify, but raise no edifice; declamations which specifically declare merely this: that the individual who professes to act for such noble ends and who deals in such fine phrases is in his own eyes an excellent creature a puffingup which inflates him with a sense of importance in his own eyes and in the eyes of others, whereas he is, in fact, inflated with his own conceit."
"In public opinion, however (see I, the way is open for everyone to express and give effect to his subjective opinions on the universal."
"There can therefore be nothing in the whole that is not in the parts: namely, a striving to incorporate determinate parts into itself; and to the extent that there is supposed to be a completed whole, this striving must have causality."
"This pure consciousness is at the same time equally simple."
"The two concepts have been synthetically united, which is exactly what a force of inertia is supposed to mean."
"the consciousness of our higher nature and of our absolute freedom."
"In all this, however, the mediation of each with itself through the other is in fact negated; each of the two determinations is its own self mediation."
"We have above explained the understanding in various ways through a spontaneity of cognition (in contrast to the receptivity of the sensibil ity), through a faculty for thinking, or a faculty of concepts, or also of judgments which explanations"
"Now the question naturally arises, what is the cause that makes such a twofold use of reason necessary, and by means of which conditions can one knowc whether only the first or also the second takes place?"
"A thoroughgoing solution to this problem of whether suicide can ever be morally justifiable thus depends upon the answer to the prior question concerning whether it is possible that duty could demand that one kill oneself."
"One can (God be praised!)"
"This selfpreservation of the ones through their negative reference to one another is, however, rather their dissolution."
"The error into which Newton fell in solving a problem by the omission of essential higher powers, an error which gave his opponents the occasion for a triumph of their method over his, and of which Lagrange has traced the true origin in his recent investigations (Theorie des fonct."
"For no cognition can contradict it without at the same time losing all content,.e."
"We have, first of aU, to see the nature of its activity as it is directed against the impure intentions and perverse insights of the actual world."
"There was thus in that case no real contradiction of rea son with itself in the propositions"
"Yet such a selfish aim can easily be distinguished from the idea, in accordance with which everyone presupposes that this unity of reason con forms to nature itself; and here reason does not beg but commands, though without being able to determine the bounds of this unity."
"The object is simply the determinable as such, and in the idea it has this essential side of not being in and for itself opposed to the concept Because this cognition is still finite, not speculative cognition, the presupposed objectivity does not as yet have for it the shape of something which is inherently the concept simply and solely and does not hold anything particular for itself as against the cognition."
"The 'there are' conveys no other justification than that we find the named species and that they show up in experience."
"While at first it is only dimly aware of its presence in the actual world, or only knows quite simply that this world is its own, it strides forward in this belief to a general appropriation of its own assured possessions, and plants the symbol of its sovereignty on every height and in every depth."
"My world is changed' means '"
"If they contain the unconditioned, then they deal with something under which all experience belongs, but that is never itself an object of expe rience; something to which reason leads through its inferences, and by which reason estimates and measures the degree of its empirical use, but that never constitutes a member of the empirical synthesis."
"Instead, it cultivates the entire unified human being."
"The statues are now only stones from which the livillg soul has flown, just as the hymns are words from which belief has gone."
"This way of representing the infinite cannot avert Kant's conclusion that it leads to a greater or smaller infinite."
"In other words, by this concept nature is represented as if an understanding contained the ground of the unity of the manifold of its empirical laws."
"Summary representation of the correctness and unique possibility of this deduction of the pure concepts of the understanding."
"The unity of consciousness, which grounds the categories, is here taken for an intuition of the subject as an object,b and the category of substance is applied to it."
"the Notion posited indeterminateness and is thus also its immanent movement that of going down into the simple substance, which is Subject only as this negativity and movement."
"The latter are only discursive thinkers and utterly lack intuition."
"This other is the qualitative element and, as we have established, is nothing else than the relation of powers of the quantum."
"Consequently, the final end of a rational being necessarily lies in infinity; it is certainly not an end that can ever be achieved, but it is one to which a rational being, in consequence of its spiritual nature, is supposed to draw ceaselessly nearer and nearer."
"Both moments are essential."
"Buiat the same time, the unity is nolan in itselfor merely implicit like the first postulate in whichfree Nature,constitutes an de men oLthe unity, and inconseq uenee"
"But since we do not intuit these for themselves, we must take up the homogeneous manifold in general in accordance with concepts of magnitude."
"That parting of subject and predicate is the difference of the concept; the totality of the species in the predicate can then be none other than this difference."
"Whether the predicate ought to be or not to be coupled with a certain subject appears at first only as problematic, and to this extent the indeterminateness falls on the side of the copula."
"des Eitzzelnetl is particularly worthy of note; it bears a resemblance to the planetary system, which presents only irregular movements to the eye, yet whose laws can nevertheless be recognized."
"The pure moral being, on the other hand, because it is above the struggle with Nature and sense, does not stand in a negative relation to them."
"ment; but that the predicate expresses the Substance, and that the SubJect itselffalls into the universal, this is the unity in which the accent dies away. ."
"But just as lordship showed that its essential nature is the reverse of what it wants to be, so too servitude in its coosummation will really turn into the opposite of what it immediately is; as a consciousness forced back into itself, it will withdraw into itself and be transformed into a truly independent consciousness."
"or That use is the real aspect and actuality of property"
"This middle term is on the one hand subsumed under a higher extreme, the objective universality and power of the absolute center; on the other hand, it subsumes under it the non self subsistent objects whose superficiality and formal singularization it supports."
"Jus as it sees fai th in general to."
"Here lies the point of transition of the rational being to self sufficiency; here lies the determinate, sharp boundary between necessity and freedom."
"This Knowing is the inbreathing of the Spirit, whereby Substance becomes Subject, by which its abstraction .and"
"In this latter case, therefore, I will always have to compare my concepts in transcendental reflection only under the conditions of sensibility, and thus space and time will not be determinations of things in themselves, but of appearances; what the things may be in themselves I do not know, and also do not need to know, since a thing can never come before me except in appearance."
"insist most strongly on their rights, whereas those of nobler mind seek to discover what other aspects there are to the matter Sache in question rhus"
"As soon as this inner content attains consciousness and is represented zur Vorstellullg kommt in general prop ositions (either in its own right /iir sich or for the purpose of concrete reasoning Riisomliererl on felt needs and on events, dispensations, and circumstances within the state), all the contingencies of opinion, with its ignorance and perverseness, its false infoi:mation and its errors of judgement, come on the scene."
"It is in the 'idea' that this conformity of objectivity and subjectivity is achieved."
"; for the nature of a human being consists precisely in the fact that he is essentially universal in character, not an abstraction of the moment and a single fragment of know ledge."
"Hardly anything conflicts more directly with the end of the state than a subordinate official setting himself up as an interpreter of the law."
"Any definition with which a science makes an absolute beginning can contain nothing else than the precise and correct expression of what is represented in one's mind as the traditionally accepted subject matter and purpose of the science."
"But a philosophical outline is not expected to conform to this pattern, if only because it is imagined that what philosophy puts forward is as ephemeral a product as Penelope's weaving, which is begun afresh every day."
"In order to avoid the false illusion here, one proceeds according to the One must note well this paradoxical but correct proposition, that nothing is in space except what is represented in it."
"For the proposition 'Consider whether your maxim can be asserted as a universal principle would be all very well if we already had determinate principles concerning how to act."
"what mere experience entitles us to extract to satisfy any sort of theology"
"These sophistical a assertions are only so many attempts to solve four natural and unavoid able problems of reason; there can be only so many of them, no more and no less, because there are no more series of synthetic presuppositions that bound the empirical synthesis a priori."
"If the manner of this intuition is not given in any way, then the object is merely transcendental, and the concept of the understanding has none other than a transcendental use, namely the unity of thought of a manifold in general."
"This being so, then a series of bodies in which the difference is expressed as a numerical difference of their specific gravities by no means runs parallel toa series in which the difference is that of the other properties, even if, to facilitate the comparisop only one or me of them are taken."
"Some representations Vorstellungen of constitutions merely set up the state as an abstraction which governs and issues commands, and leave it undecided or regard it as immaterial whether this state is headed by one or several or all. '"
"Thus the actual contains nothing more than the merely possible."
"Obscurantism is, among other things, a crime against the state as it ought to be."
"Again, let us suppose that such a man were able subsequently to convince himself of the truth of what he had at first doubted; he would still remain worthless if he held to the above way of thinking."
"Einstimmung here, bereinstimmung below; the terms are synonymous."
"these show clearly that they are possible only according to ideas; although individual creature, under the individual conditions its existence, is congruent with the idea of what is most perfect of its species (as little as a human being is congruent with the idea of humanity that he bears in his soul as the archetype of his actions), nevertheless these ideas re in the highest understanding individual, unalterable, A thoroughly determined, and the original causes of things, and only the whole its combination in the totality of a world is fully adequate to its idea."
"It is just the point, however, that the best should not remain in the recesses of what is inner, but should be brought out of these depths into the light of day."
"Real measure and something entirely different comes irresistibly the scene, namely crime which makes right into wrong and virtue into vice."
"Since the two are thus passive and active at once, their difference is thereby already sublated; it is a totally transparent reflective shine; they are substances only in being the identity of the active and the passive."
"Hence they cannot be applied to the divine will."
"In the sequel it will be shown from the way in which the empirical intuition is given in sensibility that its unity can be none other than the one the category prescribes to the manifold of a given intuition in general according to the preceding thus by the explanation of its a priori validity in regard to all objects of our senses the aim of the deduction will first be fully attained."
"In this way, it is first and foremost the moment of I Philosoplzy ofRight ziversal knowledge Kemztnis which is extended by the publicity with which the proceedings of the Estates are conducted."
"if say: All bodies are extended, then this is an an alytic judgment."
"But the concept is more than all this; its determinations are determinate concepts, themselves essentially the totality of all determinations."
"The organic being, however, is a singular individual, which is itself pure negativity, and therefore destroys within itself the fixed determinateness which attaches to indi erent being."
"a negative nothing Principien Satz without any digressions through a precise determination of the concept of existence, if I had not found that the illusion consisting in the confu sion of a logical predicate with a real one (i.e., the determination of a thing) nearly precludes all instruction."
"When this disposition and actuality are present, the natural drive is reduced to the modality of a moment of nature which is destined to be extinguished in its very satisfaction, while the spiritual bond asserts its rights as the substantial factor and thereby stands out as indissoluble ill itselfand exalted above the contingency of the passions and of particular transient caprice."
"But since individuality in its activity should show itself to be alive, or in its thinking should grasp the living world as a system of thought, there would have to be present in thought itself a content for that individuality, in the one case a content of what is good, and in the other of what is true, in order that what is an object for consciousness should contain no other ingredient whatever except the Notion which is the essence."
"Thus, since purpose is in the means as only an external determinateness at first, it is itself, as the negative unity, outside the means; the means, for its part, is a mechanical object that possesses purpose only as a determinateness, not as the simple concretion of totality."
"ie beautifitl ethical individuality Individualitiit."
"To progress from the cognition of oneself (of the soul) to cognition of the world and, by means of this, to the original being, is so natural that this pro gression appears similar to the logical advance of reason from premises to a conclusion."
"Thinking should rigorously pursue its own course, independently of conscience."
"This, therefore, is how the natural course of human reason is consti tuted."
"For everything concerning which I know better or concerning which I am merely undecided is immoral for me; and from this it would seem to follow that I would not be permitted to keep my word the moment I became of a different mind or even if I were simply to begin to harbor doubts concerning the promised achievement."
"The concept has an external presentation in nature and spirit wherein its determinateness manifests itself as dependence on the external, as transitoriness and inadequacy."
"The essential point expressed by the laws of saturation thus concerns only the amount of units themselves quantitative (not atoms), the units of a body with which the quantitative unit (equally not an atom) of another body chemically different from the first is neutralized; the difference consists in these different proportions alone."
"Through his service he rids himself of his attachment to naturaJ existence in every single detail; and gets rid of it by working on it."
"At the foundation of this relation there still lies the externality of quantum; it is indifferent quanta that relate themselves to each other, that is, they have the reference that mutually connects them in this being outside itself."
"The one and the void are being foritself, the highest qualitative in itselfness that has sunk to the most complete externality; immediacy, or the being of the one, since it is the negation of all otherness, is posited as no longer determinable and alterable; and in the presence of its absolute obduracy all determination, every manifold and every conjunction, therefore remains irreducibly external reference."
"But the thing whose activity is under consideration here is posited as a thing that preserves itselfin its relation to its opposite."
"Namely, what in the case ofthe inorganic seems to offer the possibility of such a .comparison of inner and outer, in the case of the organism is altogetherabsent."
"Az Conclusions from the above concepts."
"Anyone who, in connection with the concept of a power, thinks of anything other than such a mere means of attachment does not understand what he himself is thinking."
"But each of these determinatenesses when thought of as simple, as property or non property, without explicating them further, is as simple as the other, ie is not self contradictory."
"More over, however much they may think to make themselves unrecognizable by exchanging the language of the schools for a popular style, these so called indifferentists, to the extent that they think anything at all, al ways unavoidably fall back into metaphysical assertions, which they yet professed so much to despise."
"In the series of independent measure relations the one sided members of the series are immediate qualitative somethings (specific gravities or This"
"Thus the finite and the infinite are both this movement of each returning to itself through its negation; they are only as implicit mediation, and the affirmative of each contains the negative of each, and is the negation of the negation."
"The concept of the understanding contains pure synthetic unity of the manifold in general."
"The elements of this side will be the subject of the present Remark."
"And this is precisely why one is not allowed to do certain things: because one cannot know that this is something everyone wills."
"Second, it is the connection of the subjectivity of the simple concept, existing for itself, and of the concept's objectivity which is distinguished from it; the former is essentially the impulse to sublate this separation, and the latter is indifferent positedness, subsistence which in and for itself is null."
"But it does contain a priori principles, and to that extent it may, and in fact must, specify the method by which nature has to be judged according to the principle of final causes."
"The repulsion of the one from itself is the making explicit of what the one is implicitly in itself; but, thus laid out as one outside the other, infinity is here an infinity that has externalized itself, and this it has done through the immediacy of the infinite, of the one."
"Herein consists the creativity of the concept, a creativity which is to be comprehended only in the concept's innermost core."
"If the I is ever to be a cause at all then there must be such starting points."
"But it is still similar to bliss, viz., insofar as one's determination of the will can at least keep itself free from the influence of inclinations and needs and this enjoyment is thus analogous, at least in its origin, to the self sufficiency that can be ascribed only to the supreme being."
"Thus moral teleology alone can furnish the concept of a unique author of the world suitable for a theology."
"accordingly the concept that in the object was only inner or, which amounts to the same, only outer, is now posited; purpose is, in the first instance, precisely this concept which is external to the mechanical object."
"As a result, their opposition has faded away in itselfand become an insubstantial shape."
"The infinity of quantum has been determined up to the point where it is the negative beyond of quantum, a beyond which"
"This is an absolute demand of the moral law, and thus it is everyone's duty to further the coexistence of the freedom of all."
"But the 'I' is in the first place purely self referring unity, and is this not immediately but by abstracting from all determinateness and content and withdrawing into the freedom of unrestricted equality with itself."
"The principle of teleology considered as an inherent principle of natural science"
"Only in destroymg some neganvewill have a feeling of its own existence Dasein."
"For we have complete insight only into what we can make and accomplish according to our concepts."
"the determinateness which the other has over against it, is mediated through this other, and this mediating other is again its own determining positing."
"the relation of independent measures By measures we no longer mean now merely immediate measures, but measures that are self subsistent because they become within themselves relations which are specified, and in this being for itself they are thus a something, things that are physical and at first material."
"The singular, for its part, is reflected into this predicate which is its universal essence; to this extent, the subject is a concrete existence and a phenomenal something."
"When Science is faced with the demand as if it were an acid test it could not pass that it should deduce, construct, find a priori, or however it is put, something called 'this thing' or 'this one man', it is reasonable that the demand should say which 'this thing', or which 'this particular man' is meant; but it is impossible to say this."
"Anything that lies in a series of causes and effects is something I can easily comprehend in accordance with the law of the mechanism of nature."
"As an individual and as an instrument of the moral law, I possess both an understanding and a body."
"Ethical life has therefore been represented to nations as eternal justice, or as gods who have being in and for themselves, and in relation to whom the vain pursuits of individuals are merely a play of the waves.a aTranslator's note:"
"Rather we recognize even in thi's fate the power"
"Translator's note: 'The greatest enemy of the good is the better.'"
"and Divine knowledge."
"Through them alone is cognition, and determination of an object, possible."
"The concept of marriage (in the sense just indicated) is already contained in the mere concept of love, and to say that a moral woman can give herself only to love is the same as saying that she can give herself only under the presupposition of a marriage."
"The same goes for nonbeing: as the moment of something in this unity of being and non being: it is not non existence in general but is the other, and more determinedly according as being is at the same time distinguished from it"
"For a science of the beautiful would have to determine scientifically, ie by means of proofs, whether a thing was to be considered beautiful or not; and the judgement upon beauty, consequently, would, if belonging to science, fail to be a judgement of taste."
"In family relationships belong to personal rights Kant, moreover, oja real kit/d."
"determined through rep resentations,.e."
"It is in logic the simple in itselfness which in the idea of life has attained the externality truly corresponding to it; the concept that came on the scene earlier as a subjective concept is the soul of life itself; it is the impulse that gives itself reality through a process of objectification."
"There is no difference between the duty of self defense and the duty of defending others; both are the same duty to defend freedom as such."
"When sought as a particular individual, it is not a universal individuality in the form of thought, not a. Notion, but an individual in the form of an object, or an actual individual; an object ofimmediate sense certainty, and for that very reason only something that has already vanished."
"It is only through a logical judgement that we get knowledge."
"Practical propositions are distinguished from theoretical ones either with regard to their principles or their consequences."
"An actual sense certainty is not merely this pure immediacy, but an instance of it."
"that it makes itself essentially into an effect and is cause precisely for that reason."
"but rather that we seek to use them for determining our own selves and our will."
"But a. in so far as they belong to the negative unity they are at the same time exclusive of other properties"
"We see heroes lose faith in the noblest and finest aspects of their dispositions and feelings, not only in relation to what these lead to, but also in relation to their source and theirvalue; indeed, we are elevated by the doumfoll oJthe best itself.'"
"From this it is clear that the schematism of the understanding through the transcendental synthesis of imagination comes down to nothing other than the unity of all the manifold of intuition in inner sense, and thus indirectly to the unity of apperception, as the function that corresponds to inner sense (to a receptivity)."
"Thus number is nothing other than the unity of the synthesis of the manifold of a homogeneous intuition in general, becauseb"
"This reflective activity of connection belongs in itself to reason, and to rise above the determinations and attain insight into their discord is the great negative step on the way to the true concept of reason."
"In order to exhibit the concept in this manner, however, one certainly has to follow and has to be able to follow the path taken by the Wissenschaftslehre; that is to say, one has to abstract from all being as such (from the fact) and commence with what is higher than all being, with intuiting and thinking (with the acting of the intellect as such)."
"what I make of myself."
"It often happens that children emphasize their prior volition when they oppose the appropriation of I y;."
"Now, the furtherance of this good and therefore the presupposition of its possibility are objectively necessary (though only as a consequence of practical reason); but the manner as to we want to think it as possible rests within our choice, in which however a free interest of pure practical reason decides for the assumption of a wise originator of the world."
"Of course, substance is the absolute unity of thought and being or extension; it therefore contains thought itself, but only in its unity with extension, that is to say, not as separating itself from extension and hence, in general, not as determining and informing, nor as a movement of return that begins from itself."
"Nevertheless they can be exhibited in concreto if one applies them to appearances; for in the latter they have the proper material for a concept of experience, which is nothing but a concept of the understanding in concreto."
"But there are so many Unterweisung"
"in connection with the concepts of quantity."
"Anything that does not have its origin in faith, in confirmation by our own conscience, is an absolute sin."
"This would force the conclusion that the concept upon which each is grounded is self contradictory."
"Things are called 'in themselves' in so far as abstraction is made from all being for other, which really means, in so far as they are thought without all determination, as nothing."
"it makes itself the essential moment, whereas what is intrinsically good and true it subordinates to itself."
"The idea, on account of its immediacy, has singularity for the form of its concrete existence."
", a or a tntcrciultt, canno be thought a priori, consequently only an experience can be thought with the conditions under which it can become experience in combination with the concept of the understanding."
"hV. Synthetic priori judgments are contained as principlesi in all theoretical sciences of reason."
"The language of their praise is in this way the Spirit that in the state power itselfuni tes the two extremes."
"have at first collapsed into it and do not as yet stand over against each other in determinate self subsistence."
"It is the transcendental use of pure reason, of its principlesd and ideas, whose closer ac quaintance we are now obligated to make, in order properly to determine and evaluate the influence and the worth of pure reason."
"Under the presupposition of such agreement the distinction between a learned and an unlearned public falls away, as do the church and the state."
"The universal must particularize itself; to this extent, the necessity of division lies in the universal."
"The concrete existent is consequently the turning back of itself into itself through its negation and through the negation of this negation; it has, therefore, Cf."
"A discursive justification or explanation of the concept of science can yield at best a general notion of it and a historical acquaintance; but a definition of science or more precisely of logic has its proof only in the necessity of the manner it is produced by consciousness as just mentioned."
"Does one suppose that our being so ready to degrade the moral law to the level of our famili inclinations can be ascribed to any other cause or that everyone's taking such trouble to turn this law into the favored precept of our well"
"This first mode of freedom is the one which we should know as property, the sphere of formal and abstract right; property in its mediated shape as contract, and right in its infringement as crime and punish lt, are no less a part of this sphere."
"For although he might be separated from the moral interest by the absence of all good dispositions, yet even in this case there is enough left to make him fear a divine existence and a future."
"For judging objective purposiveness we always require the concept of an end, and, where such purposiveness has to be, not an external one (utility), but an internal one, the concept of an internal end containing the ground of the internal possibility of the object."
"Thus when I think a thing, through whichever and"
"But in what we are wont to call sublime in nature there is such an absence of anything leading to particular objective principles and corresponding forms of nature, that it is rather in its chaos, or in its wildest and most irregular disorder and desolation, provided it gives signs of magnitude and power, that nature chie<U+FB02>y excites the ideas of the sublime."
"But the science whose final aim in all its preparations is directed properly only to the solution of these problems is called metaphysics, whose procedure is in the beginning dogmatic,.e."
"It is true that this property is the essential and sole property of this Force, or that it belongs to it necessarily."
"In the syllogism of action, one premise is the immediate reference of the good purpose to the actuality which it appropriates and which, in the second premise, it directs as external means against the external actuality."
"Number is not an object of the senses, and to be occupied with number and numerical combinations is not the business of the senses; such an occupation, therefore, encourages spirit to engage in reflection and the inner work of abstraction, and this is of great, though one sided, importance."
"This source it regards as an intelligent Being producing with design or essentially and fundamentally living."
"But this last item that I attribute to myself, my physical body, is supposed to be connected with the entire world of bodies; and thus if the former is intuited as changed, so is the latter necessarily viewed as changed as well."
"But the sister becomes, or the wife remains, the head of the household and the guardian of ,the divine law."
"After he removes from the One the various determinations of whole and parts, of being initself, of being in another, etc.; of figure, time, etc., his result is that being does not pertain to the One, for being does not accrue to a something except according to one of these forms."
"Hence Spinozism, despite Heinrich Jacobi, who found Spinoza's rationalism repellent."
"It expresses an indeterminate empirical intuition,.e., a perception"
"There we claimed that, just as surely as we are conscious of ourselves at all, we ascribe to ourselves an absolute power of freedom."
"Here the critique's puzzle as to how one can deny objective reality to the suprasensib use of the categories and yet grant th this reality in regard to the objects of pure practical reason is also for the first time explained."
"In the former case, the immediacy or rawness of the impulses gets lost in the process of getting to know what their truth is, and their content takes on a higher form."
"This differs essentially from common understanding, which is also sometimes called common sense (sensus communis): for the judgement of the latter is not one by feeling, but always one by concepts, though usually only in the shape of obscurely represented principles."
"I maintain that the state and the church must tolerate scholarship or learned inquiry Gelehrsamkeit as such."
"To complete our insight into the Notion of this move ment it may further be noticed that the differences themselves are exhibited in a twofold difference: once as a difference of content, one extreme being the Force reflected into itself, but the other the medium of the 'matters'; and again as a difference ofjorm, since one solicits and the other is solicited, the former being active and the other passive."
"These moments occur here apart because the form of immediacy, of being, enters into the being for itself as existent foritself; because of this immediacy, each moment is posited as a determination existent on its own, and yet they are just as inseparable."
"To pit this single insight, that in the Absoluteeverythingis the same, against thefullb dy ofarticulated cognition, which at least seeks and demands such fulfilment, to palm off its Absolute as the night in which, as the saying goes, all cows are black"
"A /B. Or 'unconditioned': unbedingt."
"It founders to the ground and thus itself comes to be essential identity or thing in itself."
"At first, it may seem arbitrary that we think of ourselves under precisely this specific condition."
"It attains therefore to the enjoyment of pleasure, to the conscious.ness Qfits actualization in a consciousness which appears as in."
"Moreover, if this person is supposed to act in the future in accordance with a plan that he has already designed in the present, he must be and must remain the same person he is now; his future existence must develop in a regular way from his present one."
"; where one magnitude is to be divided by another, it places their symbols together in accordance with the form of notation for division, and thereby achieves by a symbolic construction"
"The distinction between thought and will is simply that petween theo<U+FFFD>tical and ractical attitudes."
"For the understanding does not permit among appearances any condition that is itself empirically unconditioned."
"But in respect of the particular laws with which we can become acquainted through experience alone, there is such a wide scope for diversity and heterogeneity that judgement must be a principle to itself, even for the mere purpose of searching for a law and seeking one out in the phenomena of nature."
"To be sure, this theory of freedom will never be illuminating to anyone who cannot cure himself of the previously mentioned basic ill of dogmatism."
"Conversely, just as subjectivity evaporates every content into itself, it rna also in turn develop it out of itself."
"This applies to philosophy just as much as to religion, for religion also, no less than philosophy, will not admit finitude as a true being, an ultimate, an absolute, or as something non posited, uncreated, eternal."
"In determining the concept of the highest good, they did indeed follow one and the same method insofar as they did not acce virtue and happiness as two different elements of the highest good, and hence sought the unity of principle according to the rule of identity; but they separated, in turn, inasmuch as between the two elements they selected the basic concept differently."
"That content is the identical element of both, and because the two are distinct, yet in their distinction each is the reference to the other, it is their subsistence, the subsistence of each as the whole itself."
"The stipulation in a contract, on the other hand, is itself already the exis lce Daseill of my will's decision, illthe sense that I have thereby alienated the <U+FFFD>g Sache I own, that it has ;; ceased to be my property, and that I already' rwlgnlzeliasili:"
"But what is it that really violates my stronger conviction in this case?"
"Those of the first school asserted that reality is in the objects of the senses alone, and that every thing else is imagination; those of the second school, on the contrary, said that in the senses there is nothing but semblance,a and that only the understanding cognizes that which is true."
"For the original apperception is related to inner sense (the sum of all representations), and indeed related a priori a Objecte Zusammenstellung Objecte"
"The shine, however, is essence's own positing."
"the magnitude of the world prior to the regress, which is impossible."
"For it becomes fixed, and, while not universal, it enables rules to be prescribed for it in respect of certain purposively determined objects."
"Thus mechanical or chemical technique, because of its character of being externally determined, naturally offers itself to the connection of purpose, which we must now examine more closely."
"But this murderer has as well a multitude of other properties, just as he has other bumps, and along with the bumps also hollows; one has a choice of bumps and hollows."
"But, while that is so, we cannot fail to recognize the end of nature ever more and more to prevail over the rudeness and violence of inclinations that belong more to the animal part of our nature and are most inimical to education that would fit us for our higher vocation (inclinations towards enjoyment), and to make way for the development of our humanity."
"In respect of what happens, one can think of causality in only two ways: either according to nature or from freedom."
"Here 'must determine' translates (the subjunctive) bestimme."
"Thus life as such is for spirit in one respect a means, and then spirit holds it over against itself; in another respect, spirit is an individual, and then life is its body; in yet another respect, this unity of spirit and its living corporeality is born of spirit into ideality."
"The action of the Selfretains towards it this negative meaning"
"We have seen regarding life that it is the idea, but at the same time it has shown itself not to be as yet the true presentation or the true mode of its existence."
"The content is therefore only this exposition itself."
"For in such an explanation all we ask for is a judging of natural generation as adapted to our critical faculty, or re<U+FB02>ective judgement, instead of one adapted to the things themselves on behalf of determining judgement."
"cos mological ideas, partly because by world is understood the sum total of all appearances, and our ideas are also directed only toward the un conditioned among appearances, but partly too because in the tran scendental sense the word world signities the absolute totality of the sum total of existing things, and we are directing our attention only to the completeness of the synthesis (though properly only in the regress toward its conditions)"
"it is easy to fall into the very common misunderstanding of regarding this ideality as mere power and empty arbitrariness, and of equating sovereignty with despotism."
"Yet it is, with all its proportions, an aesthetic idea, and, as such, capable of being fully presented in concreto in a model image."
"It is, therefore, also quantum in complete determinateness, for in it the limit is the determinate plurality that has the one, the absolutely determined, for its principle."
"For, strictly speaking, we do not observe the ends in nature as designed."
"Hence for the sake of the moral law and in order to provide it with influence on the will, one must not search for any further incentive in view of which the incentive of the moral law could be dispensed with, because this would bring about nothing but hypocrisy without stability; and it is precarious even to let some further incentives (such as that of advantage) so much as cooperate alongside the moral law."
"In our times, the state purchases what it needs."
"Each side is thus only one of the two moments of quantum, and the self subsistence which is their proper characteristic is in principle negated; in this qualitative combination they are to be posited as negative with respect to each other."
"He deadens his conscience."
"Also unacceptable is to present the major premise of this syllogism as though it should run: 'That which is similar to an object in one distinctive mark is similar to it in other such marks as well.'"
"The immediate existence of Reason which, for us, issued from that pain, and its peculiar shapes, have no religion, because the selfconsciousness of them knows or seeks itself in the immediate present."
"Thus either the works receive Spirit into them only as an alien, departed spirit that has forsaken its Hving saturation with reality and, being itself dead, takes up its abode in this lifeless crystal; or they have an external relation to piri as something which is itself there externally and not as Spirit, ,) they are related to it as to the dawning light, which casts its significance on them."
"These moments of its determination are qualitatively opposed; restriction is determined as the negative of the ought, and the ought equally as the negative of restriction."
"Mathematics is thoroughly grounded on definitions, axioms, and demonstrations."
"; it is the contradiction of giving to what is particular an actuality which is immediately a universal."
"These elementary universal beings are at the same time self conscious individualities heroes, who place their consciousness into one of th se powers, find in it determinateness of character and constitute the effective activity and actuality of these powers."
"Further, whether these categories could be cognized through perception regarding this object, or whether they lie a priori in thinking in general."
"Present for this differentiation are the two determinations contained in the measure, quality and quantity, and everything depends on how these two are posited in it."
"If being and nothing had any determinateness differentiating them, then, as we said, they would be determinate being and determinate nothing, not the pure being and"
"It is only these things Sadzezz in their immediate quality, not those determinations they are capable of taking on through the mediation of the will, which are at issue here in connection vith personality, which is itself still in its initial immediacy., <U+FFFD>' Intellectual geistige accomplishments, sciences, arts, even religious observances (such as sermons, masses, prayers, and blessings at consecrations), inventions, and the like, become objects Gegenstiinde of contract; in the way in which they are bought and sold, etc., they are treated as equivalent to acknowledged things."
"It is, in other words, for us a law (of reason), which belongs to our vocation, that we should esteem as small in comparison with ideas of reason everything which for us is great in nature as an object of the senses; and that which makes us alive to the feeling of this supersensible side of our being harmonizes with that law."
"what is found is supposed to be something different from the finding subject itself."
"A book is a thing, and each of its pages is also a thing, and equally so every tiny piece of its pages, and so on to infinity."
"cularized individuals, which arises first."
"In addition, it also expresses that the predicate is not just a universal but also one which is still determinate."
"The positive and the negative constitute the essential determination in which essence is lost in its negation."
"Essence or Wesen in German is only the inner at first; hence it is also taken for a totally external and unsystematic common element; one speaks in German of Schulwesen, Zeitungswesen, that is, of public instruction, of the press, and The essential relation understands by it a common something made up of existing objects externally assembled together, with no essential bond or organization."
"Such a course, however, I cannot take in the deduction of the moral law."
"the Cult itself;justas"
"In the same way, the estimation of this position that pertains to every concept in ac cordance with the difference in its use, and guidance for determining this place for all concepts in accordance with rules, would be the tran scendental topic, a doctrine that would thoroughly protect against false pretenses of the pure understanding and illusions arising there from by always distinguishing to which cognitive power the concepts properly belong."
"These are confron ted with a material which offers infinite resistance,"
"His most important work was the Disquisitiones arithmetic."
"Accordingly, in this result cognition is restored and united with the practical idea; the previously discovered reality is at the same time determined as the realized absolute purpose, no longer an object of investigation, a merely objective world without the subjectivity of the concept, but as an objective world whose inner ground and actual subsistence is rather the concept"
"It has a content which it differentiates from itself; for it is pure negativity or the dividing of itself, it is consciousness."
"Consciousness, on its part, likewise makes its appearance as an actuality, but also as divided within itself and in its work and enjoyment this dividedness displays it fasbreaking up into a rela#on to the world of actuality or a being which is for itself, and into a being, that is in itself."
"that in its certainty of itself it is all reality; and End and essence are for it henceforth the spontaneous interfusion of the universal of gifts and capacities and individuality."
"This, however, is not possible if, in thinking of these opposites, one does not also think of something that remains the same, something that endures in this thinking of opposites, something to which the identity of consciousness affixes itself."
"For in its absolute negativity the universal contains determinateness in and for itself, so that, when speaking of determinateness in connection with the universal, the determinateness is not being imported into the latter from outside."
"The Spinozistic mode, just like the Indian principle of alteration, is the measureless."
"The relation of substantiality is at first, therefore, only this, that substance manifests itself as a formal power whose differences are not substantial; in fact, substance only is as the inner of the accidents, and these only are in the substance."
"If we do not grasp either the connection, as it is in itself, between crime and its nullification, or the thought of value and the comparability of crime and punishment in terms of value, we may reach the point"
"This totality, as totality or as a universal, is what constitutes the inner of Things the play of Forces as a reflection of the inner into itself."
"is supplemented by public poorhouses, hospitals, streetlight ing, etc."
"It is dear at the outset that, since they exist only in this universality, they are no longer separated from one another at all but are in themselves essentially self superseding aspects, and what is posited is only their transition into one another."
"If it is not the truth which is at issue but only narration, as it is the case in pictorial and phenomenal thinking, then we might as well stay with the story that we begin with feelings and intuitions, and that the understanding then extracts a universal or an abstraction from their manifold, for which purpose it quite understandably needs a substrate for these feelings and intuitions which, in the process of abstraction, retains for representation the same complete reality with which it first presented itself."
"But how should we be able to establish a synthetic unity a priori if subjective grounds of such a unity were not contained a priori among the original sources of cognition in our mind, and if these subjective conditions were not at the same time objectively valid, being the grounds of the possibility of cognizing any objecta in experience at all?b a Object Question mark added."
"What is objective is not the I itself and cannot be attributed to the I neither to the intelligent I as such, inasmuch as what is objective is expressly opposed to the I as intellect, nor to the I that wills and is really active, for the latter has not yet been set into action since there is as yet no willing but only a description of the will's choice."
"Thus our doctrinea removes all reservations about assuming the existence of matter based on the testimony of our mere self consciousness, and it declares this to be proved in the same way as the existence of myself as a thinking being."
"The Transcendental Aesthetic a"
"The former has already taken place in the"
"That mode of taking possessi ich is not actual in itself but merely represmts my will occurs when I mar a sign to indicate that I have placed my will in it."
"The seed of the attacks, which lies in the nature of human reason, must be extirpated; but how can we extirpate it if we do not give it freedom, indeed even nourishment, to send out shoots, so that we can discover it and afterwards eradicate it with its root?"
"For himself he can be certain on the point from his mere consciousness of the separation of everything belonging to the agreeable and the good from the delight remaining to him; and this is all for which he promises himself the agreement of everyone a claim which, under these conditions, he would also be warranted in making, were it not that he frequently violated them, and thus passed an erroneous judgement of taste."
"Now if external intuition as determined in time and space is required for objectivity, and it is this objectivity that is missed, it is then clear that by objectivity is meant only sensuous reality."
"It is itself in its contingency completely valid in its own sight, and knows its immediate individuality to be pure knowing and doing, to be the true reality and harmony."
"The first proposition concerns my conviction regarding some ought, some state of affairs that is supposed to be brought about."
"The former, however, will find in their very frankness a strain of reconciliation, will find in their subversive depths the all powerful note which restores Spirit to itself."
"But there is something which, in this provisional estimate, deter mines the standpoint from which it can be carried out with appropriate thoroughness, and that is a comparison of the principlesg from which a Weltweisheit Beschaffenheit Bestimmung GrUnden und Gegengriinden streitig; the first edition reads strittig (disputable, questionable)."
"Remark This moral proof is not in any sense a newly discovered argument, but at the most only an old one in a new form."
"The deed is something simply determined, universal, to be grasped in an abstraction; it is murder, theft, or a good action, a brave deed, and so on, and what it is can be said of it."
"This is how natural science was first brought to the secure course of a science after groping about for so many centuries."
"A /B finally whether with regard to its existence it is isolated or in reciprocal dependence with others; to decide about the possibility, actuality, and necessity of its existence or the opposites thereof: all of this belongs to rational cognition from concepts, which is called philosophical."
"Hence he who has properly learned a system of philosophy,.g., the Wolffian system, although he has in his head all of the principles, explanations, and proofs together with the division of the entire theoretical edifice, and can count everything off on his fingers, still has nothing other than a complete historical cognition of the Wolffian philosophy; he knows and judges only as much as has been given to him."
"The absolute idea there is no need to deprecate the fact that it may be accepted only provisionally and hypothetically."
"As regards the preservation of the ratio in the vanishing of the quanta, it has been said (in other places, as in Carnot, Reflexions sur la Metaphysique du Calcul Infinitesimal)"
"and that there could not fail to be conditions given through this regressY From this"
"At first the concern is only to make the judgi according to moral laws a natural occupation accompanying all our own free actions as well as our observation of those of other people, and to make it, as it were, a habit, and to sharpen it by first asking whether the action objectively conforms to the moral law, and to which one; in doing this, one distinguishes attention to that law"
"the relation of whole and parts First, the essential relation contains the self subsistence of concrete existence reflected into itself; it is then the simple form whose determinations are indeed also concrete existences, but they are posited at the same time, moments held in the unity."
"The self consciousness which has managed to attain this absolute reflection into itself knows itselfin this reflection as a consciousness which cannot and should not be compromised by any present and given determination."
"And the side of its quantitative nature is to be found in this: that the limit or negation is not an immediate existent, but that existence is posited rather as continuing in its otherness."
"With this we are led to reflect on a difference regarding where to place the determinateness of a figure, whether it is constructed, like the height of the figure here, or whether it is the external limit."
"Unity, difference, and relation are categories each of which is nothing in and for itself, but only in relation to its opposite, and they cannot therefore be separated from one another."
"of the slave does violence to that concept The definitions of 'property' and 'proprietor' would seem equally hazardous in many situations."
"It tells us that not one of the operations of the mind or manifestations of inner sense can be explained on materialistic lines; that, accordingly, no illuminating or determining judgement as to the separate nature of what thinks, or of the continuance or discontinuance of its personality after death, can possibly be made on speculative grounds by any exercise of our faculty of theoretical knowledge, Thus everything is here left to the teleological judging of our existence from a point of view that is necessary in the practical sphere, and to the assumption of the continuance of our existence, as a condition required by the final end that is absolutely imposed upon us by reason."
"Thus one must also grant blind chance its right, and with blind chance all use of reason ceases; and this then firmly establishes, and makes irrefutable, skepticism regarding inferences ascending from effects to causes."
"No, the conviction is not logical but moral certainty, and, since it depends on subjective grounds (of moral disposition)"
"little by little the greatest but pure moral intere therein."
"unity into which everything returns."
"the state power into the abstract universal which is obeyed, and into the self centred will which, however, does not yet conform to the universal; and the noble consciousness into the obedience rendered by the existence which is not self centred, or the intrinsic being of self respect and honour, and into the still unsurrendered being for."
"In this, Spirit conceived as object, has for itself the significance of being the universal Spirit that contains within itself all essence and all actuality; yet it is not in the form offree actuality or the apparent independence of Nature."
"This furnishes us with an easy way to present scientifically the content or material of the moral law."
"So, as the manifestation that it is nothing, that it has no content, save to be the manifestation of itself, the absolute is absolute form."
"When the activity of civil society is unrestricted, it is occupied internally with expalldillg its population and industry."
"According to what was said above, this means that I make a distinction within myself between a knowing subject and"
"Deduction of the reality and applicability of the principle of morality Preliminary remark concerning this deduction"
"In accord with this, we can rightfully say that our thinking subject is not corporeal, meaning that since it is represented as an object of our inner sense, insofar as it thinks it could not be an object of outer sense,.e."
"None of them shows itself as essential, as free to enter intorelation with an other, and consequently what is organic maintains itself in its relation."
"As regards the further determination of the subject and predicate, we have remarked abo that it is in judgment that they must first receive their determination."
"We have to think pure change, or think antithesis within the antithesis itself, or contradiction."
"Yet someone might object that everyone expressly ought to be an end for himself; and we can concede this point as well."
"the articular will respected; it is consequently the least serious of all universal not red, I nevertheless recognize that it has a colour."
"ie premises taken for granted."
"Thus the concept of cause is acquired surreptitiously and not legitimately; indeed, it can never be acquired legitimately or authenticated, because it demands a connection in itself void, chimerical, untenable before any reason, to which no object at all can ever correspond."
"It is therefore regrettable that the same sensuousness of material which is a sign of the inferiority of its standpoint has been reckoned instead to its advantage."
"The tran sience of the finite now becomes a willed evanescence, and the negativity which underlies it becomes the substantial individuality proper to the ethical essence."
"Therefore Descartes also rightly limited all perception in the narrowest sense to the proposition I (as a thinking being) am."
", this universal identity, faUs apart into the non identity of individual be in fo .sel"
"And also, what an infinite host of images, actions, situations, etc. are epitomized in the representation of God, or of love, etc.,"
"The second figure of the formal syllogism, does not correspond to this schema, because the that constitutes the middle term did not subsume or was not a predicate."
"A body is healthy when every movement ensues immediately and without hindrance just as soon as the will has been determined, and it remains healthy to the extent that the understanding continuously shows equal care for the preservation of all its limbs."
"This content, along with the determinations developed within it, does indeed originate in the will's rationalilX and it thus rational in itself but expressed in so immediate a form, it does not yet have the form of rationality."
"If the problem involves more complex expressions and operations, as for instance the multiplication of decimal numbers, and the solution only states the mechanical procedure, a proof will then indeed be necessary; but it can consist in nothing more than the analysis of the expressions and of the operation from which the solution proceeds of itself."
"No matter how we act, we can never be wrong."
"For the middle term which is posited in it as the totality of the concept itself contains the two extremes in their complete determinateness."
"he being the ultimate end of nature, so far as we can conceive?"
"When the maxim according to which I intend to give testimony is tested by practical reason, I always consider how the maxim would be if it held as a universal law of nature."
"We do not, as it were, wish to infer an act of thinking from some being in itself; for the I exists only for and only in its knowledge."
"is therefore that that lies outside the concept A and on which the possibility of the synthesis of the predicate of weight with the concept A is grounded."
"For the existence of appearances, not grounded in the least within itself but always conditioned, demands that we look around us for something different from all appearances, hence for an intelligible object, with which this contingency would stop."
"I am to go outside the concept"
"Fichte, according to whom 'ideas are problems or tasks for thinking.'"
"He tells us 'how he could have fallen on his knees in sheer wonderment, how a flood of joyful tears poured from his eyes, and living religiosity arose from that moment within him'."
"The capac ity (receptivity) to acquire representations through the way in which we are affected by objects is called sensibility."
"In this task, therefore, the critique of practical reason can, without being censured, start from pure practical laws and their actuality, and must do so."
"I absolutely must do what is commanded of me, and do it for its own sake, regardless of any example I might set."
"Now instead of having to run through the entire series of the grounds in an ostensive proof that can lead to the truth of a cognition, by means of complete insight into its possibility, one need only find a single false one among the consequences flowing from its contrary, and then the contrary is also false, thus the cognition that one had to prove is true."
", that he is working not with indivisibles but with vanishing divisibles."
"We have allowed ourselves to be satisfied with less than we could have demanded."
"Such a system of pure (speculative) reason"
"will establish that reason accomplishes just as little on the one path (the empirical) as on the other (the transcendental), and that it spreads its wings in vain when seeking to rise above the world of sense through the mere might of speculation."
"It has intrinsically this side of being for other to which the fluctuation in size belongs."
"If the first, then they are certainly appearances, but one cannot know whether they could be cognized in some other way, and whether intellectual intuition is possible."
"In this form the free concept, as the 'I' existing for itself, is withdrawn from objectivity, but it refers to the latter as its other, a subject matter that confronts it."
"because this is nothing but the logical requirement of assuming com plete premises for a given conclusion, and no time order is present in the connection of the conditioned with its condition; both are presupposed as given simultaneously."
"It is to be regarded as the side of the universality of the concept, hence as an abstract universality, essentially only inhering in the subject and in the form of immediate being which, posited for itself, is indifferent to the subject."
"And here I find three points of view on which the most notable changes on this stage of conflict have been founded."
"To reproach the concept as such for being empty is to ignore its absolute determinateness which is the difference of the concept and the only true content in the element of the concept Here"
"Whether the category of reality lies in it, whether objective inferences are to be drawn from it."
"What virtue learns from experience can only be this, that its End is already attained in principle, that happiness is found directly in the action itself, and that action itself is the good."
"According to our claim, our will is supposed to be the cause of this reality."
"In the parts, therefore, the whole is only equal to Cf."
"But because concrete existence is not the first immediacy of being but has the moment of mediation within it, its further determination as thing and the distinguishing of the two is not a transition but truly an analysis."
"To begin with, it is immediately evident that what I am supposed to work upon bearbeiten must be the sort of thing that can be worked upon by me, that I possess the physical power for the kind of work that is required."
"an end for him, just as he is, from my viewpoint, an end for me."
"For neither ofthese two is single and separate; on the contrary, each of them, whose essential determination lies in their being free from one another, is thus in the unity no longer free from the other, and each therefore is superseded."
", from things with which I am not acquainted as to their merely transcendental concept, I infer a being of all beings, with which I am even less acquainted through its transcendental a concept, and of whose unconditioned necessity I can make for myself no concept at all."
"which,;has a will of its own"
"If, as sometimes happens, in a search through a bog, we light on a piece of hewn wood, we do not say it is a product of nature but of art."
"The first argument looks only to the absolute totality of the series of conditions, each determined by another in time, and from this it gets something unconditioned and necessary."
"That this illusion is also natural and for human reason unavoidable, as well as why it is so, and remains so, although upon the solution of the apparent contradiction it no longer misleads us, may be made intelligible from the above considerations."
"But what is in space and fills space is matter."
"This thing which is mine is a particular content and is therefore incompatible with me; thus it is separate from me and is only potentially mine, just as I am only the potentiality of uniting with it."
"Now if I say: the concept of the ens realissimuma is a concept, and indeed the one single concept, that fits necessary existence and is adequate to it, then I must admit that the latter could be concluded from it."
"In the state, it is no longer present."
"unity with others in such wise"
"And yet, according to what was said above, in a community I am by no means supposed to proceed from my private conviction, but instead I am supposed to begin with the symbol."
"Now the concept of freedom, insofar as its reality is proved by an apodeictic law of practical reason, forms the keystone of the whole edifice of a system of pure reason, even of speculative reason."
"Its structure is such that we can only regard a real whole in nature as the effect of the concurrent dynamical forces of the parts."
"By contrast, in the infinite in which the quantitative finite has its absolute determinateness, this finite refers to itself in it."
"A A A is an a priori law of nature;"
"What is strange about these principles,i and what alone concerns us, is this: that they seem to be transcendental, and even though they containmere ideas to be followed in the empirical use of reason, which reason can follow only asymptotically, as it were,.e.,"
"But, because the universal is self identical only in that the determinateness that it holds within is sublated, hence it is the negative as negative, it immediately is the same negativity that singularity is."
"which is what we ourselves find to be the case from our transcendental point of view."
"Here we are absolutely not supposed to assume either things in themselves or laws of nature, understood as the laws of a nature outside of us consequently"
"Because in thinking in general we abstract from every relation of the thought to any objecta (whether of sense or of the pure understanding), the synthesis of conditions of a thought in general (No. I) is not objec tive at all, but merely a synthesis of thought with the subject, which is, however, falsely taken to be a synthetic representation of an object.b"
"But this also, their indifferent self subsistence, is a mere positedness, and for this reason they are capable of mixing and aggregating, and as an aggregate of becoming one object."
"But further, that which begins already is, but is also just as much not yet."
"But surely the example does not demonstrate that atoms exist; or that a number of atoms of the dissolved bodies surround the atoms of the fluid, the free atoms of both acids positioning themselves around those that remain in combination (with copper oxide); or that there is actually a symmetry in their position and disposition or, for that matter, that there are intervening spaces between atoms least of all, that the dissolved substances share among them these intervening spaces between the atoms of the solvent."
"From this side, too, the habit of expressing the speculative predicate in the form of a proposition, and not as Notion and essence, creates a difficulty that can be increased or diminished through the very way in which philosophy is expounded."
"This order of concepts of the determination of the will must not be lost sight of; for otherwise we misunderstand ourselves and believe that we contradict ourselves even though everything stands side by side in the most perfect harmony."
"Under no circumstances can such a principle be set to the account of experience since only under this assumption is it possible to order experience in a systematic fashion."
"The I is to be posited as an actual I, but solely in contrast with or in opposition to a Not I."
"Although within the Notion of the objectively real indi vidualityall themomen ts circumstances, end, means, and realization have the same value, and the original specific nature has the value of no more than a universal element, on the other hand, when this element becomes an objctive being, itsspecificcharacter as such comes to light in the work done, and obtains its truth in its dissolution."
"Therefore the principle which determines our judgment in this is the basis subjectively indeed as a need, but simultaneously also as a means of furthering what is objectively (practically) necessary of a maxim of assent for a moral aim,.e."
"uali ty and its tru th, the relationshi of a cruel necessi ty by which the former is oppressed."
"With reproduction as a moment of singularity, the living being posits itself as actual individuality, a self referring being for itself; but it is at the same time a real outward reference, the reflection of particularity or irritability as against an other, as against the objective world."
"it is still different from personality, from the determination of freedom."
"sciously take the reverse step from what is, what simply is, to what is thought, which is the same as what simply is"
"Just as in this product of purposive activity the content of the purpose and the content of the object are external to each other, so too do the determinations in the other moments of the syllogism relate to each other externally in the connecting middle, the purposive activity and the object which is the means; and in the subjective purpose, which is the other extreme, the infinite form as totality of the concept and the content of the concept According to the connection by which the subjective purpose is syllogistically united with objectivity, both premises are an immediate connection namely the connection of the object determined as middle term with the still external object, and the connection of the subjective purpose with the object made into means."
"From the standpoint of ordinary consciousness we know nothing more than that we are simply thinking in a certain way."
"This judging and talking is, therefore, what is true and invincible, while it overpowers everything; it is solely with this alone that one has truly to do with in this actual world."
"Now it is clear in such cases that the concept of an objective purposiveness of nature serves merely to assist re<U+FB02>ection on an object, and not its determination through the concept of an end, and that a teleological judgement concerning the inner possibility of a product of nature is a merely re<U+FB02>ective, not a determining judgement."
"In the first case, the judgement concerning the given representation is an aesthetic"
"But now if this unity of association did not also have an objective ground, so that it would be impossible for appearances to be appre hended by the imagination otherwise than under the condition of a pos sible synthetic unity of this apprehension, then it would also be entirely contingent whether appearances fit into a connection of human cognitions."
"In this work, there is an end of the instinctive effort which produced the work that, in contrast to self consciousness, lacked consciousness;for in it, the activity of the artificer, which constitutes self consciousness, comes face to face with an equally self conscious, self expressive inner being."
"to be actual, subject, the spontaneous becoming ofitsdf."
"The eye of the Spirit had to be forcibly turned and held fast to the things of this world; and it has taken a long time before the lucidity which on heavenly things used to have could penetrate the dullness and confusion in which the sense of worldly things was enveloped, anclso make attention to the here and now as such attention to what has been called 'experience', an interesting and valid enterprise."
"Let us begin by discussing the inner character of such publicity."
"But the universal is still a qualitative determinateness, the predicate of the singular; in being determined as universal, the singular is posited as the universality of the extremes or as the middle; it is for itself the extreme of singularity, but since it is now determined as a universal"
"Needs and means, as existing in reality"
"But, now, reason is further interested in ideas (for which in our moral feeling it brings about an immediate interest) having also objective reality."
"These members exist as such only in the individuality; they are separable inasmuch as they are external and can be grasped in this externality, but as thus separated they revert to the mechanical and chemical relations of common objectivity."
"On the other hand, to take conscious individuality unintelligently, as a manifestation that is single and separate, involves a contradiction, since its essential nature is the universal of Spirit."
"This question certainly has to be raised, for up to this point we have derived nothing but nature in its entirety as a real whole, but we have by no means yet derived any part of this whole."
"We have thus al ready before us a putative science, which is built on the single proposition I think; and we can, in accordance with the nature of a transcendental philosophy, quite appropriately investigate its ground or groundlessness."
"But the mention of a totally abstract universal is sufficient to counter the equally abstract pronouncement that restriction cannot be transcended, or, again, the mention of the infinite in general is sufficient to counter the pronouncement that the finite cannot be transcended."
"the relation the world to empty space would be a relation of the world to no object."
"Therein also belongs the proposition that all negations are limitations."
"And the reflecting determinations of being, such as something and other, or finite and infinite, although they essentially point to one another, or are as being for other, also stand on their own qualitatively; the other exists; the finite, like the infinite, is equally to be regarded as an immediate existent that stands firm on its own; the meaning of each appears complete even without its other."
"Judged by the moral law, every human life possesses equal value;"
"But these are all past relations that in the concept have come to an end."
"Here, however, the result achieved is the union and permeation of the two natures in which both are, with equal value, essential and at the same time only moments; so that Spirit is simultaneously consciousness"
"For a condition in which natural needs as such were immediately satisfied would merely be one in which spirituality was immersed in nature, and hence a condition of savagery and unfreedom; whereas freedom consists solely in the reflection of the spiritual into itself, its distinction from the natural, and its reflection upon the latter."
"Therefore the existence of a reason like this, that in the order of ends can be the supreme law to itself, in other words the real existence of rational beings subject to moral laws, can alone be regarded as the final end of the existence of a world."
"The critique of the forms of the understandi has arrived precisely at this result, namely that such forms do not apply to things in themselves."
"This absolu te break up of the essence"
"The genus does not inhere in the subject; it is not one property of it or a property at all; it contains all singular determinacies dissolved into its substantial purity."
"This is a false claim that needs correction by its opposite: the two are absolutely different and opposed."
"qualitative infinity."
"Similarly with the universality of the essence, that is, with the determination of the content by pure consciousness."
"Even if the appearance is in conformity with the essence, it is not in conformity with it from another point ofview, for appearance is the stage of contingency, or essence in relation Bezielztwg to the inessential."
"Mortification of sensations and desires, weakening of force is absolutely contrary to duty."
"In the immediate syllogism of the understanding, the terms have the form of immediate determinations; we must now consider that syllogism from this side, according to which the terms are content."
"But since it becomes aware in this way that its business must al ways remain incomplete because the questions never cease, reason sees itself necessitated to take refuge in principles that overstep all possible use in experience, and yet seem so unsuspicious that even ordinary common sense agrees with them."
"Psychological coercion can refer only to qualitat'rveand quantitative differences within crime,"
"It is positedness negation which has however deflected the reference to another into itself, and negation which, equal to itself, is the unity of itself and its other, and only through this is an essentiality."
"Division is the immediately next step after this starting point."
"For by the first one means a necessary object of our power of desire, by the second, of our power of loathing, but both according to a principle of reason."
"the good lacking subjectivity and determination, and the determinant, ie subjectivity, lacking siclz atif/zebetl and are thereby reduced to moments, to moments of the concept which becomes manifest as their unity and has attained reality through this very positing of its moments, so that it now exists as Idea"
"Relationships among human beings are, to begin with, either natural,.e., relationships based upon some natural arrangement, or artificial,.e., relationships based on a contingent and free determination of the will."
"Anblick; likewise below."
"nothing and is therefore not a will at all."
"In this the logic sets a very bad precedent for compliance to its own teaching; it allows itself to do the opposite of what it prescribes as a rule, namely, that concepts should be derived, and scientific propositions (therefore also the proposition: 'There are such and such species of concepts') demonstrated."
"In these circumstances, what is lacking is the principle of subjective freedom whereby the individual's substantial activity (whose content is in any case of a particular nature in the services in question) is mediated by his own particular will."
"The will of any single person is actually universal law, for all other persons will the same thing; and there is no need for constraint, because everyone already wills on his own what he is supposed to will."
"The Abbe Terrasson says that if the size of a book is mea sured not by the number of pages but by the time needed to understand it, then it can be said of many a book that it would be much shorter if it were not so short."
"Of all these three kinds of delight, that of taste in the beautiful may be said to be the one and only disinterested and free delight; for, with it, no interest, whether of sense or reason, extorts approval."
"standing but determinateness too is retained, although transformed into an indeterminate determinateness, a universal determinateness, that is to say, into particularity."
"a priori (namely for appearances in so far as, connected in one consciousness, they are to constitute experience)."
"But it is also self mediated through the non being of its other and is, therefore, a unity existing for itself and excluding the other from itself."
"But the utterance of a stipulation is not just an utterance in general; on the contrary, it embodies the commoll will which has come into being, and which has superseded the arbitrariness of individual dispositioll and its liability to change."
"But the reflection within it of its absolute process is the sublating of this immediate singularity; thereby the concept, which as universality is in this singularity the inner, transforms externality into universality, or posits its objectivity as a self equality."
"Or identity is immanent reflection, reflection which is such only as inner repelling, and it is this repelling as immanent reflection, repelling that immediately recovers itself."
"You want to use the result of your deduction to explain that compulsion that manifests itself in all of us, and hence to derive something actual from thoughts."
"of the thing in itself in connection with the moment of immediate existence, of being initself,"
"The monarch is one individual several partici pate in the executive power, and the many at large participate in the legislative power."
"And this we have answered sufficiently when we showed that since in freedom a relation is possible to conditions of a kind entirely different from those in natural necessity"
"In fact, 'evil' is the English cognate of bel and shares this ambiguity: traditionally, the meaning of this term has included both the moral and the nonmoral (as in the expression 'the problem of evil')."
"Because this is the nature of what is, and in sofar as what is has this natyre for our knowing, this knowing is not an activity that deals with the content as something alien, is not a reflection,iutoitselfaway from the content."
"This rationality is not an expedient; on the contrary, in contrast to the immediacy of the connection that still obtains in judgment, it is the objective element; it is the prior immediacy of cognition that rather is mere subjectivity, in contrast to the syllogistic inference which is the truth of the judgment."
"That means: it is not from a simple thinking substance that we derive the inner appearances of our soul, but from one another in accordance with the idea of a simple being; it is not from a highest intelligence that we derive the order of the world and its systematic unity, but rather it is from the idea of a most wise cause that we take the rule"
"It is a purely relative purposiveness, and merely contingent to the thing itself to which it is ascribed; and although among the examples cited, the various kinds of herbs or plants, considered in their own right, are to be judged as organized products of nature, and, therefore, as things of art, yet, in relation to the animals that feed on them, they are to be regarded as mere raw material."
"Let us briefly summarize what was said there: a determinate object is posited only in consequence of some determinate limitation of a drive; it is posited in order to explain this limitation."
"This concept of absolute difference with its negativity dissolved into simplicity and self equal, is brought to intuition in sensibility."
"But, if that is the case, then we must have here an underlying idea of a possible understanding different from the human."
"the more it takes such conditions as skill, health, capital, etc."
"despises intellect and science"
"I A ition would think through it."
"Further, therefore, the single, individual consciousness as it exists immediately in the real ethical order, or in the nation, is a solid unshaken trust in which Spirit has not, for the individual, resolved itself into its abstract moments, and therefore he is not aware of himself as heing a pure individuality on his own account."
"Even if nature revealed to us no more than this logical purposiveness, we should still have cause for admiring nature in this regard since we are unable to find any ground for this in the universal laws of the understanding themselves."
"To do so would involve a contradiction, since all that occurs in ordinary consciousness is a feeling, which is how this law manifests itself in a specific case."
"Consequently that which persists, in relation to which alone all temporal relations of appearances can be determined, is substance in the appearance,.e."
"The distinction between unilateral and Translalor's Tlole: 'excessive damage'."
"The minor premise contains an experience, the major premise an inference from an experience in general to the existence of something necessary."
"And that is when it for the first time is actual."
"Whoever would draw the concepts of virtue from experience, whoever would make what can at best serve as an example for imperfect illustration into a model for a source of cognition (as many have actually done), would make of virtue an ambigu ous non entity, changeable with time and circumstances, useless for any sort of rule."
"It cannot derive it from any other quarter (as it would then be a case of determining judgement)."
"The untruth or inapt expression in its improved form now runs: everyol ought to speak the truth according to his knowledge and con' viction at the time."
"This result is a vanishedness, but it is not nothing; as such, it would be only a relapse into one of the already sublated determinations and not the result of nothing and of being."
"their possibility represented as resulting from a voluntary act (which equally belongs to the realm of natural causes)."
"A Of the Deduction of the Pure Concepts of the Understanding Third in general and the possibility of cognizing these a priori."
"However, since the English 'to necessitate' is unsuitable (very awkward, at best) in most contexts"
"The original representation, time, must therefore be given as unlimited."
"The content of the ground is therefore the ground that has returned into its unity with itself; the ground is at first the essence that in its positedness is identical with itself; as diverse from and indifferent to its positedness, the ground is indeterminate matter; but as content it is at the same time informed identity, and this form becomes for this reason a ground connection, since the determinations of its oppositions are posited in the content also as negated."
"therefore equally possible, not for a force of nature but for the will, which stands in absolute opposition to any force of nature."
"In order to do this, we will have to consider its form, its matter or object, and the connection of these two with each other."
"Wissenschaftslehre, ."
"In these mutually conflicting arguments I have not sought semblancesa in order to present (as one says) a lawyer's proof, which takes advantage of an opponent's carelessness and gladly permits a misunderstanding of the law in order to build the case for his own unjust claims on the refu tation of the other side."
"Special attention must be paid here to the distinction between right and morality."
"If we can bring into our action anything flattering concerning the meritorious, then the incentive is already somewhat mixed with love for oneself and therefore has some assistance from the side of sensibility."
"A person to whom such an ethics appears austere and painful is beyond help, for there is no other ethics."
"the contractual obligation consequently has its source in the concept of contract, and specifically in that moment whereby the contracting party, by alienating his property, remains an owner ofproperty and, more precisely, remains quantitatively the same as he was before."
"the idea is not denied its value and is even allowed room alongside reality."
"Further, since as determinacies they are self references, they therefore already have the propositional form in them."
"The is therefore the result of and and of a pre set operation which is by nature also a completely external and thoughtless act, one that a machine can also therefore perform."
"This outer aspect, although a language of the individual which he possesses within himself, is at the same time, qua sign, something indifferent to the content it is supposed to denote, just as that which posits for itself the sign is indifferent to it."
"It would be one in which the thing that for the moment is designated effect deserves none the less, if we take the series regressively, to be called the cause of the thing of which it was said to be the effect."
"Provisional explanation of the possibility of the categories as a priori cognitions."
"But now the transition of this quality to the quantitative determination ('the shortest')"
"It is not swept away in the becoming but persists undisturbed through it, endowed with the power of unalterable, undying self preservation."
"External reflection is as such external to itself; determinate difference is negated absolute difference; it is not simple difference, therefore, not an immanent reflection, but has this reflection outside it; hence its moments come apart and both refer, each also outside the other, to the immanent reflection confronting them."
"This curtain of appearance hanging before the inner world is therefore drawn away, and we have the inner being the gazing into the inner world"
"The light dove, in free flight cutting through the air the resistance of which it feels, could get the idead that it could do even better in airless space."
"Only in this way is the actual exercise of morality possible."
"Therefore in all appearances that which persists is the object itself,.e."
"For the combination of the first and second in order to bring forth the third concept requires a special act of the understanding, which is not identical with that act performed in the first and second."
"(for this is the guise in which what is newly encountered first appears), and to."
"This indetenninacy, however, can be taken into account only in connection with imbecility, lunacy, etc., and with childhood, because only such pronounced conditions as these can annul aujheben the character of thought and free will and allow us to deny the agent the dignity"
"<U+FFFD> ination and pure certainty of This subjectivity, as abstract itself alone, evaporates into itself all detenninate aspects of right, duty, <U+FFFD>"
"But from this the possibility of a priori cognition cannot be understood, for in that case both must precede."
": Now comes the proposition:"
"All representations have a necessary relation to a possible empirical consciousness: for if they did not have this, and if it were entirely impossible to become conscious of them, that would be as much as to say that they did not exist at all."
"Contract ofgift, comprising I. Gift of a thing; so called gift in the proper sense."
"It is, regardless of whether it is known or not; and it remains, even it it is not known, whereas there is no knowledge if the object is not there."
",consciousness having attained its truth, it therefore abandons, or rather supersedes, the internal division which gave rise to the dissemblance, the division between the in itself and the self, between pure duty qua pure purpose, and reality qua a Nature and sense opposed to pure purpose."
"(the concept of something in gen eral) through that which is given in sensibility, in order thereby to cognize appearances empirically under concepts of objects."
"Epicurus can be called the foremost philosopher of sensi bility, and Plato that of the intellectual."
"Viewed as a principle of an efficacy in the world of bodies, I am an articulated body; and the representation of my body is itself nothing but the representation of myself as a cause in the world of bodies and is therefore indirectly only a certain way of looking at my own absolute activity."
"Rather, by this doctrine of method is meant the way in which one can impart to the laws of pure practical reason admittance to the human mind and influence on that mind's maxims,.e."
"do I posit myself as an I."
"Sense certainty thus comes to know by experience that its essence is neither in the object norin the 'I' and"
"the one which is itself idea is to be dealt with in the logic; this, however, is a presupposition which is necessarily treated in logic."
"Only through this actual sacrifice could it demonstrate this selfrenunciation."
"This external determinateness has now progressed to self determination and"
"But although it looks as if there is solely a chain of causes, permitting no absolute totality at all in the regress to their conditions, this reser vation does not detain us at all; for it has already been removed in our general judgment on the antinomy of reason occurring when reason proceeds to the unconditioned in the series of appearances."
"These last are more readily admitted to be transient, merely relative, confined to the reference to another."
"But now the infinity of a series consists precisely in the fact that it can never be completed through a successive synthesis."
"In order to remove this point from the depths of the entire system of transcendental philosophy and to express it in the most comprehensive and incisive manner, I will put it as follows:"
"Thus, the very same end that requires me to protect the freedom of those who are equal to me also requires that I restrict the freedom of my child."
"also the Preface to the Phenomenology,."
"Thus there are maxims of speculative reason, which rest solely on rea son's speculative interest, even though it may seem as if they were objective principles."
"But now in this we have overlooked a re markable difference between the concepts."
"The state has a primary and absolute entitlement to be a sovereign and independent power ill"
"I find that at all times not merely the philosopher but even the com mon understanding has presupposed this persistence as a substratum of all change in the appearances, and has also always accepted it as indu bitable, only the philosopher expresses himself somewhat more deter minately in saying that in all alterations in the world"
"Since the faculty of the teleological power of judgement relates its representation of 'First to the Critique of Judgement purposiveness to the object not by means of feeling but through concepts, no special terms are required in order to distinguish the faculties it implies, whether we are speaking of inner or relative (though in both cases objective) purposiveness; for the teleological power of judgement here relates its re<U+FB02>ection entirely to reason (rather than to feeling)."
", what arises in us when we think in accordance with the concept of morality (see the introduction to our Natural Rig can only be an idea"
"But, in general, to be for itself and to be in relation to an other constitutes the nature and essence of the content, whose truth consists in its being unconditionally universal; and the result is simply and solely universaL."
"They comprehended that reason has insight only into what it it self produces according to its own design; that it must take the lead with principlesa for its judgments according to constant laws and compel nature to answer its questions, rather than letting nature guide its move ments by keeping reason, as it were, in leading strings; for otherwise accidental observations, made according to no previously designed plan, can never connect up into a necessary law, which is yet what rea son seeks and requires."
", is that, in the concept of which the manifold of a given intuition is unified."
"This involves our referring nature to something supersensible, a reference that far transcends any teleological knowledge we have of nature; for, to find the end of the real existence of nature itself, we must look beyond nature."
"In determining itself as ground, essence determines itself as the not determined, and only the sublating of its being determined is its determining."
"For just as life is the natural setting of consciousness, independence without absolute negativity, so death is the natural negation ofconsciousness, negation without independence, which thus remains without the required significance of recognition."
"But, just because or is a relation of quanta, there cannot be a ratio, or an expression, of corresponding to it."
"Necessity thus reigns in both cases, and we seem to have become caught up in some kind of intelligible fatalism, though of a somewhat lower degree than the usual kind."
"But, strictly speaking, we should not anticipate the presupposed but should rather consider the result for itself in the form determination."
"that is to say an end acting in the interest of our imagination."
"As described above, this drive of mine is also an object of reflection, and necessarily so."
"The consciousness of the one, as far as the manifold is con cerned, is still always to be distinguished from the consciousness of the other, and it is only the synthesis of this (possible) consciousness that is at issue here."
"Thus what contradicts tselfinitsconsciousness hasfor it in each case the form of essence and of its own reality ."
"The most tender relationships among human beings arise from this unique foundation."
"sophistry of a figure of speech, or fallacy of equivocation."
"Earlier mathematicians sought to express the results of the newly invented infinitesimal calculus (which, after all, always had to do with concrete objects) in words and propositions, and to exhibit them in concrete geometrical constructions, basically to use them as theorems in the ordinary method of proof."
"Stone, metal, do not transcend their restriction, for the simple reason that the restriction is not a restriction for them."
"the possibility of which can only be de rived from actuality in experience, and consider here only the possi bility of things through concepts a priori, about which I proceed to assert that can never occur by itself solely from such concepts, but always only as formal and objective conditions of an experience in general."
"They do not, however, contain within themselves any criterion for the correctness of the latter; instead, this criterion lies in the practical power, which is what is primary and highest in human beings and constitutes their true essence."
"In the first division where existence in general was considered, this existence had, as at first taken up, the determination of an existent."
"In the case of those finite beings, however, the law has the form of an imperative, because in them, as rational beings, one can indeed presuppose a pure will, but, as beings affected by needs and sensible motivating causes, not a holy will,.e."
"The proof of that axiom would have to be derived from the concept of parallel lines; any such proof, however, has no place in his science, no more than does the deduction of his definitions, of his axioms and his subject matter in general, of space itself and its first determinations, the dimensions."
"On the contrary it is by virtue of morality that the assumption is necessitated."
"Mention was made in connection with the apodictic judgment where judgment attains completion and the subject thus loses its determinateness as against the predicate of the double meaning of subjectivity originating from it, namely the subjectivity of the concept and equally so of the externality and contingency confronting the conce"
"It may be objected that vanishing magnitudes do not have a final ratio, because any ratio before the magnitudes vanish cannot be the last, and, once vanished, there is no ratio any more."
"On the other hand, this demand is also to be viewed positively, as a command: do everything that, in your own best estimation, furthers this preservation of yourself."
"It ceases immediately on its appearance in determinate form to be what it was on appearing; by appearing in determinate form, it solicits the other side to express itself, ie the latter is now immediately what the first was supposed to be."
"(Here I must attend to an objection that I would not have thought possible had it not been raised even by some good thinkers who had been properly initiated into transcendental philosophy."
"the objective end is my end, so that I am preserved in it as this mdlvidual(see )"
"For this concept acquires signification anyway, even if only for practical use, viz., through the moral law."
"The laws peculiar to organisms accordingly concern a relationship of the organic moments in their twofold significance, once as being a part of the organic structure, and again as being a universal fluid determinateness which pervades all those systems."
"From the viewpoint of the ordinary understanding, however, the very existence of a drive is nothing more than a fact of consciousness, and ordinary understanding does not extend beyond the facts of consciousness."
"For this reason, the moments of this truth are exhibited in their own proper determinateness, viz."
"The Subject that fills its content ceases to heyond it, and ca.nnot have any further Predicates or accidental properties."
"But in a situatiotl ofcrisis Not whether in internal or external affairs it is around the simple concept of sovereignty that the organism and all the particular spheres of which it fonnerly consisted rally, and it is to this sovereignty that the salvation of the state is entrusted, while previously legitimate functions dieses sons!"
"Spirit beholds itself in the form of being, though not of the non spiritual being that is filled with the contingent determinations of sensation, the being that belongs to sense certainty; on the contrary ,itis being that is filled with Spirit."
"In this return into self there comes to view its second relation."
"It is in this way, therefore, that consciousness, qua worker, comes to see in the independent being of the object its own independence."
"It is not active against something, but only against itself as a simple unresisting element."
"The two are both determinateness; in this they are identical; this, their universal determinateness, is particularity."
"wherever it can do so without contradiction, to think one single principle in place of several."
"Finally, as to the third moment that can be seen in the provisional choice between the two conflicting parties, it is exceedingly strange that empiricism is completely contrary to everything popular, although one might have thought that the common understanding would eagerly take up a proposal promising to satisfy it through nothing but cognitions of experience and their rational connection, in place of transcendental dogmatism, which compels it to ascend to concepts far surpassing the insight and rational faculties even of those minds most practiced in thinking."
"But supposing, now that I seek to think a supersensible being (God) as intelligence, while this is not merely permissible but unavoidable if I am to exercise certain functions of my reason, I have no right"
"Secondly, a tree produces itself even as an individual."
"If matters of pure reason had to be left to dogmatic procedures, and if the opponents really had to be disposed of polemically,.e., in such a way that one must enter into battle armed with grounds of proof against opposed assertions, then nothing would be more advisable in the short run, but at the same time nothing more vain and fruitless in the long run, than to place the reason of the young under tutelage for a long time and protect it against seduction for at least as long."
"Because singularity is the turning of the concept as a negative back to itself, this turning back from abstraction, which in the turning is truly sublated, can itself be placed as an indifferent moment alongside the others and be counted with them."
"When some things are useful, then, precisely for that reason, there also are some that are not useful."
"This problem had, accordingly, to do with the a priori principles of pure understanding and its theoretical judgements."
"It is exactly the same with even the smallest time."
"But then, surely, the not white, the not red, will be nothing positive, just as the not triangular will be something totally indeterminate, for a determination based as such on number and quantum"
"Now, since this case contradicts the presupposition, there is left only the second, namely that any composition of substance in the world consists of simple parts.'"
"Or again, the subject obtains a predicate as a consequence through the conclusion; but the major premise already contains this conclusion in it; therefore the major premise is not correct on its own account, or is not an immediately presupposed judgment, but itself already presupposes the conclusion of which it should be the ground."
"But for the subservient consciousness as such, these two moments itself as an independent object, and this object as a mode of consciousness, and hence its own essential nature fall apart."
"his words conveyed no more than that strength of existence Existetlz which itself carries with it a guarantee of recognition, even if this is not expressly formulated."
"Now whether an action possible for us in sensibility is or is not a case that falls under the rule requires practical power of judgment, by which what was said universally (in abstracto) in the rule is applied in concreto to an action."
"In this respect, on the ground of an actual existence (an experience in general), we infer, as best we can, some absolutely necessary condition of that existence."
"When, therefore, a man is told,You (your inner being) are this kind of person because your skull bone is constituted in such and such a way,' this means nothing else than, 'I regard a bone as your reality To reply to such a judgement with a box on the ear, as in the case of a similar judgement in physiognomy mentioned above, at first takes away from the soft parts their importance and position, and proves only that these are no true in."
"But then the content and filling of this indifferent being, the fluKcf sensuous determinations gathered up into an organic etermination, expresses also this, that the content really does not have that determinateness, viz."
"Thus, the latter became involved in the way in which the resources in question were conserved, so that the princes no longer had exclusive control over them."
"At least the ex istence of the latter is only inferred, and runs the risk of all inferences; by contrast, the object of inner sense (I myself with all my representations) is immediately perceived, and its existence suffers no doubt at all."
"So by the constitution of our human faculty of knowledge it becomes necessary to look for the supreme source of this purposiveness in an original understanding as the cause of the world."
"This does not serve the purpose of proving the existence of such a being, yet, at least, as was the case in the physical teleology, it is a justification sufficient to convince us that to make the possibility of such a world intelligible to ourselves"
"The double meaning of the Latin 'tollere' (made notorious by Cicero's quip, 'tollendum est Octavium') does not go as far; its affirmative determination only goes so far as 'lifting up.'"
"In this simple spiritual substance, self."
"this kind is ally the first reactiDn Dn"
"I am actually free': this is the first article of faith, which prepares us for the transition into an intelligible world and which first offers us firm footing therein."
"In the realm of actuality, whether of nature or spirit, it is the concrete singularity that is given to subjective, natural cognition as first."
"; tlie contract accordingly originates in the arbitrary will of the person an origin which marriage so has in common with contract."
"The power of judgement thus reveals itself in taste alone, and indeed in that concerning objects of nature, as a faculty possessing its own distinctive principle, and it thereby claims a place in the general critique of the higher faculties of cognition which one might not otherwise have believed it deserves."
"(and hence also by the vill of the injuring party as <U+FFFD>"
"Further, the argument is not intended to affirm that it is necessary for the purpose of morality to assume that the happiness of all rational beings in the world is proportioned to their morality."
"the organization of the state; for the differences within the state are far apart, whereas everything in religion invariably has reference to the totality."
"Thus, irat first the specific nature and innate peculiarity of the individual, together with what these have become as a result of cuhivation. .) and education, are taken as the inner, as the essence of his action and his fate, then this essence has its appearance and externality to begin with in his mouth, hand, voice, handwriting, and the other organs and their permanent characteristics."
"the maxim of virtue must be the efficient cause of happiness."
"Now if he wishes to judge normal size determined upon a comparative estimate, then imagination (to my mind) allows a great number of these images (perhaps the whole thousand) to fall one upon the other, and, if I may be allowed to extend to the case the analogy of optical presentation, in the space where they come most preponderantly together, and within the contour where the place is illuminated by the greatest concentration of colour, one gets a perception of the average size, which alike in height and breadth is equally removed from the extreme limits of the greatest and smallest statures; and this is the stature of a beautiful man."
"At first quantity as such thus appears in opposition to quality; but quantity is itself a quality, self referring determinateness as such, distinct from the determinateness which is its other, from quality as such."
"And for what end does man himself exist man with whose consideration we are inevitably brought to a halt,"
"I. Vhatever agrees with the formal conditions of experience (in ac cordance with intuition and concepts) is possible."
"what attributes I am to assign to it, and in what degree, and how I am to conceive its relation to nature if I am to judge nature as a teleological system."
"But I can also make use of a stone either to crush something or to build something, etc., and these effects can also be related to their causes as specific ends."
"The antithesis: There is no freedom, but everything in the world happens solely according to laws of nature."
"a plant,' the whole company on which this answer is tried out would both grant it and at the same time unanimously declare that the statement says nothing."
"What lies outside the latter lies outside myself and does not concern me."
"To enter the state of marriage is an objective determination, and hence an ethical duty."
"This ambiguity can, however, be removed if we apply the expression 'aesthetic' neither to intuition nor to the representations of the understanding, 'First to the Critique of Judgement but solely to the acts of the power of judgement."
"What we have here is not just the reference of the two to each other, but the determining element of absolute form, namely that each term is immediately its opposite, and each is their common reference to a third or rather to their unity."
"Finally, the actual punishment has its inverted actuality present in it in such a way that the punishment is an actualization of the law, whereby the activity exercised by the law as punishment sus.pends itselj,and, from being active, the law becomes again quiescent and is vindicated, and the conflict of individ uality with it, and of it with individuality, is extinguished."
"Its impulse is the need to sublate this otherness and to give itself the truth of this certainty."
"The former is the syna"
"I cannot presuppose in every rational being (and in God not at all)."
"Wrong is a semblance of this kind, and through its disap pearance, right acquires the determination of something fixed and valid."
"It is, moreover, because of a lack of insight into the peculiar interest which motivates higher analysis, and caused the need and the discovery of differential calculus, that functions of the first degree, like the equation of the straight line, have independently been included in the treatment of calculus."
"For essence is an infinite self contained movement which determines its immediacy as negativity and its negativity as immediacy, and is thus the shining of itself within itself."
"from a hundred merely possible dollars and that they make a difference to my financial situation?"
"Hence we can understand how it is that all systems that are ever devised with a view to the dogmatic treatment of the concept of natural ends or of nature as a whole that owes its consistency and coherence to final causes, fail to decide anything whatever either by their objective affirmations or by their objective denials."
"All intuitions by which a priori concepts are given a foothold are, therefore, either schemata or symbols."
"In that vanity; all content is turned into something negative which can no longer be grasped as having a positive significance."
"The ones are thus presupposed with respect to each other posited through the repulsion of the one from itself; pre supposed, posited as non posited; their being posited is sublated, they are existents with respect to each other, such as refer only to themselves."
"Force or coercion, taken in the abstract, is therefore ltrary to right."
"However, the attitude from which actions ought to be done cannot likewise be instilled by any command, and the spur to activity is in this case immediately at hand and external, and thus reason does not first need to work itself up in order to gather strength to resist Or 'adequately': angemessen."
"Otherwise the poverty of our usual inferences through which we bring forth a great realm of possibility, of which everything actual (every object of experience) is only a small part, is very obvious."
"If, on the contrary, we tried to think existence through the pure category alone, then it is no wonder that we cannot assign any mark distinguishing it from mere possibility."
"It may be observed that here we have the meaning of the thing in itself."
"When reality, taken in the sense of a determinate quality as in the said definition of God, is made to transgress its determinateness, it ceases to be reality; it becomes abstract being; God as the pure reality in all realities, or as the sum total of all realities, is the same empty absolute, void of determination and content, in which all is one."
"Hence, although the supreme prin ciples of morality and the fundamental concepts of it are a priori cognitions, they still do not belong in transcendental philosophy,' for, while they do not, to be sure, take the concepts of pleasure and displeasure, of desires and inclinations, etc., which are all of empirical origin, as the ground of their precepts, they still must necessarily include them in the composition of the system of pure morality in the concept of duty, as the hindrance that must be overcome or the attraction that ought not to be made into a motive."
"what means are employed to get across such a wide gulf?"
"This indeterminate norm of a common sense is, as a matter of fact, presupposed by us; as is shown by our presuming to lay down judgements of taste."
"Essence came to be out of being, and the concept out of essence, therefore also from being."
"The negative is positedness as reflected into unlikeness; but positedness is the unlikeness itself, and so this reflection is therefore the identity of unlikeness with itself and absolute self reference."
"Theyr se up in hostility and destroy the community which has dishonoured and shattered its own power, the sacreg claims of the Family."
"I therefore presuppose readers who would not want a just cause to be defended with injustice."
"Now if we wish to follow the inner ground of this connection of rep resentations up to that point in which they must all come together in order first to obtain unity of cognition for a possible experience, then we must begin with pure apperception."
"The first advises us what to do if we want to partake of happiness; the second commands how we should be have in order even to be worthy of happiness."
"Consequently, although the exponent is still only an immediate quantum and only arbitrarily assumed as fixed, it does not remain fixed in the side of the ratio: rather this side, and with it the direct ratio of the sides, is alterable."
"Anyone who acts otherwise certainly does not will the end of instruction for the purposes of moral cultivation; instead, he seeks to dazzle others with his erudition, and he turns himself into the teacher of a theory, which is something very different indeed."
"But its other, the negative, is itself no longer positedness or a moment"
"In these forms, those determinations of reflection are present as they are in their concept"
"This experiment succeeds as well as we could wish, and it promises to metaphysics the secure course of a science in its first part, where it concerns itself with concepts a priori to which the corresponding objects ap propriate to them can be given in experience."
"This positedness, because it is at the same time the substance's turning back into itself, is at first its effect."
"Thus I could analyze my empirical concept of gold without thereby gaining anything more than being able to enumerate what I actually think by means of this word, which would certainly produce a logical improvement in my cognition, but no augmentation or supplementation of it."
"So too is it the office of the teacher of the people to instruct the community regarding the determinate application of the concept of duty, the love of which he rightly presupposes in them."
"the publicity ofthe administration ofjustice; for the course of law is in itself an occurrence of universal validity, and although the particular content of the case may be of interest only to the parties themselves, its universal content (i.e. the right within it and the decision on this right) is of interest to everyone."
"However, the possibility, indeed even the necessity of these cate gories rests on the relation that the entire sensibility, and with it also all possible appearances, have to the original apperception, in which every thing is necessarily in agreement with the conditions of the thorougha Verha/"
"But the rejoinder must then be that the very content of such a thought is within itself external to itself."
"as being independent of any forei cause (e.g., God), so that the determining bases of my causality and even of my entire existence are not outside me at all, this would still not in the least convert that natural necessity into freedom."
"In the other, on the contrary, being for .self counts as the essential and the simple, divine Being as unessentiaL"
"Even of a woman we may well say, she is pretty, affable, and refined, but devoid of spirit."
"But as moral pure self consciousness, it flees from this disparity between the way it thinks of these moments and its own essential nature, flees from this untruth which asserts that to be true which it holds to be untrue, flees from this wi th abhorrence back in to itself."
"The concept is for itself as concept inasmuch as it freely and concretely exists as abstract universality or a genus."
"Therefore on the empirical path (of physics) the concept of God remains always a concept of the perfection of the prima being not determined precisely enough to be considered adequate to the concept of a deity."
"A measure, in the usual sense of a standard, is a quantum which is arbitrarily assumed as the unit determinate in itself as against an external amount."
"Absolute difference Difference is the negativity that reflection possesses in itself, the nothing which is said in identity discourse, the essential moment of identity itself which, as the negativity of itself, at the same time determines itself and is differentiated from difference."
"But through its reference to others, the particular end takes on the form of universality, and gains satisfaction by simultaneously satisfYing the welfare of others."
"No difference of the real in appearance is the smallest, just as no difference in the magnitude of times is, and thus the new state of reality grows out of the first, in which it did not exist, through all the infinite degrees of reality, the differences between which are all smaller than that between a and a."
"The proof is likewise spun in apagogic form and is just as faulty as the previous one, though in a different way. '"
"How then could a feeling ensue?"
"Now, imagination rather entitles an art to be called an inspired than a fine art."
"Now if I know nothing apart from the fact that the good is my duty, I do not go J?eyond duty in the abstrac,t."
"I.e., anything that would expand (erweitern) cognition."
"We are ac quainted with nothing except our way of perceiving them, which is peculiar to us, and which therefore does not necessarily pertain to every being, though to be sure it pertains to every human being."
"But not every form of culture can fill the office of this ultimate end of nature."
"Here we are only concerned with this conceptual determination, namely that in any determination of measure the empirical coefficient constitutes the being for itself, but only the moment of the being for itself, in so far as it is in principle and therefore as immediate."
"Since in this case we would consult not the logical criterion of truth but merely our interest, our present inves tigation, even though it would settle nothing in regard to the disputed rights of both parties, will have the utility of making it comprehensible why the participants in this dispute have sooner taken one side than the other, even if no superior insight into the object has been the cause of it, and it likewise explains still other ancillary things,.g."
"Besides, the creation of civil society belongs to the modem world, which for the first time allows all determinations of the Idea to attain their rights."
"is an effective action, but since it stands in a thoroughly negative fashion with respect to the morality that constitutes its sphere, it is nonsensical."
"Here, then, knowledge appears at last to have become completely identical with its truth; for its truth is this very knowledge and any antithesis between the two sides has vanished, vanished not only for us or t'n itself, but for seW consciousness itself."
"The fact is thus the unconditioned and, as such, equally so the groundless; it arises from the ground only in so far as the latter has foundered and is no longer ground: it rises up from the groundless, that is, from its own essential negativity or pure form."
"Only in man, and only in him as the individual being to whom the moral law applies, do we find unconditional legislation in respect of ends."
"Viewed from this natural standpoint, this way of thinking evokes admiration, whereas in contrast we despise the human being who has to calculate what he stands to gain before he will move a finger."
"The correctness of the principle of the thoroughgoing connection of all oc currences in the world of sense according to invariable natural laws is already confirmed as a principle of the transcendental analytic and will suffer violation."
"I am supposed to be a means; but it turns out that I am not a means for the end of the moral law"
"What does this claim mean when one views it from the transcendental viewpoint and when one attends solely to the immanent changes and appearances within the I, in total abstraction from things outside of us?"
"Ge stiiTldm and likewise regulate one's will according to a universal principle."
"The law of the progression is well known; it is implicit in the determination of the quantum contained in the fraction and in the nature of the form in which the fraction is supposed to be expressed."
"is impossible for him to live in a way appropriate to his estate if his estate does not exist; for a community can exist in civil society only if it is legally constituted and recognized."
"The category has no other use for the cognition of things than its application to objects of experience."
",one content isjustas acceptable to it"
"In the first edition: or nothing."
"But since a sum of points will not yield a line, nor a sum of lines a surface, the points are straight away taken as already linear, just as the lines are taken as two dimensional."
"The self conceit that accompanies it is based on the consciousness of sacrifices, which one believes one could also have spared oneself."
"But the propo sitions of the antithesis are of a kind that they do render the completion of an edifice of cognitions entirely impossible."
"re flects itselfinto the Notion, and the two moments of caus and trect, of active and passive moments, which were the result of a necessary separating.out, are brought together into a unity, so that here something does not appear merely as a re."
"The actuality of the self that did not exist in the ethical world has been won by its return into the 'person' what in the former was harmoniously"
"for self alongside which appears another being for."
"However, the particular determinate relationship, in which what is subjective is supposed to be determined by what is objective, and not vice versa, arises from the absolutely posited relation of what is subjective as such to what is objective as such."
"If of two beings we call the one A and the other, the is the one which is first determined as other."
"This observation also provides us with a determinate grasp of the task now before us: we have to specify the conditions for the possibility of the reflection set forth in Part."
"Just as the human being in general is made to consist of soul and body, each of which is taken as something subsisting on its own, so also the soul is made to consist of so called soul forces, each of which has a self subsistence of its own, or is an activity with direct effects specifically its own."
"In truth, however, it was not determined that I, the same individual who was originally determined in such and such a manner, was supposed to be the one to exercise these influences."
"It must first be remarked that properly mathematical propositions are always a priori judgments and are never empirical, because they carry necessity with them, which cannot be derived from experience."
"But the absolute Being of faith is essentially not the abstract essence that would exist beyond the consciousness of the believer; on the contrary, it is the Spirit of the religious community, the unity of the abs tract essence and self consciousness."
"<U+FFFD> gives, to be sure, no intuition of the soul itself, as an object;b"
"The twentieth degree contains the twenty within itself; it is not only determined as distinguished from the nineteenth, the twenty first, etc., but its determinateness is rather its amount."
"This is the same pretense that is normally employed to defend evil in general, namely, for the sake of the good that is supposed to arise from it."
"In reality, all that remains is formal freedom."
"We now have only one more remark left to make."
", the substance (phaenomenon), but everything that changes or that can change belongs only to the way in which this substance or substances exists, thus to their determinations."
", A /B. Literally, 'after sending both ahead': nach beider Voranschickung."
"For the consciousness which holds firmly to duty, the first consciousness counts as evil, because of the disparity between its innerbeingand the universal; and since, at the same time, this first consciousness declares its action to be in conformity with itself, to be duty and conscientiousness, it is held by the universal consciousness to be hypocrisy."
"Bedeutung Absonderung Bedeutung Bedeutung"
"A philosopher was asked: How much does the smoke weigh?"
"The need to represent the Absolute as Subject has found expression in the propositions:"
"Sound Reason was at first supposed to possess immediately the capacity to speak the truth; now, however, it is said that it ought to know, that is to say, that it does not immediately know what is true."
"For if I represent to myself the force of my body in motion, it is to that extent absolute unity for me, and my representation of it is simple; hence I can also express it through the motion of a point, since its volume is not relevant, and without diminution of the force it can be represented as being as small as one wants and can even be conceived of as being located in one point."
"These keep the masses in a state of oppression, with hard work and little enjoyment, though in the course of time much of the culture of the higher classes spreads to them also."
", that is, is a tangent; or, algebraically expressed,"
"But it does not follow from this that after it has once been posited as a pure aesthetic judgement, an interest cannot then enter into combination with it."
"At times, however, we find, or at least believe we have found, that the ideas of reason have ac tually proved their causality in regard to the actions of human beings as appearances, and that therefore these actions have occurred a not through empirical causes, no, but because they were determined by grounds of reason."
"only has the aim of refuting limited assertions by internally dissolving them and, on the other hand, generally comes only to a negative result."
"But the external necessity, so far as ids grasped in a general way, setting aside accidental matters of person and motivation, is the same as the inner, or in other words it lies in the shape in which time sets forth the sequential existence of its moments."
"belonging to me or make it over to the will of someone else as his possession but onlyin so far as the thing Sache is."
"I said, 'if the I is thought objectively at all': for once what is subjective in the"
"Thus one component part cannot lie within the bounds of possible experience, and another lie beyond all possible experience."
"virtue of its necessi<U+FFFD>shape of the will's development is also <U+FFFD>further advance in the inner determination of the will by."
"For on the one hand, the former are particular cases where it is only this transfer of goods which enables me to perform my side of the agreement and where my obligation to perform it refers to the thing in question only in so far as it has come into my hands, as with loans, contracts of lease, and deposits (and as may be the case with other contracts, too) a circumstance which concerns not the nature of the relationship between stipulation and perform ance, but the manner of performance itself."
"And if as must needs be the case with extravagant concepts judgements passed in this manner cannot be constitutive principles determining the character of the object, we shall yet be left with regulative principles whose function is immanent and reliable, and which are adapted to the human point of view."
"To the non philosopher, the project of becoming conscious of consciousness may seem strange and perhaps even risible."
"We now proceed to the solution of our problem: A."
"The former content determination is its ground by virtue of its being originally linked in the first something with the other content determination."
"We have thereby proven what was supposed to be proven."
"Similarly, the Emperor was at one time a judge who travelled round the Empire dispensing justice."
"In essence, being is non being."
"so given we must afterwards look for a final end, and this final end obliges us to seek the principle of the causality of the supreme cause in question."
"For the multiplicity that was divided already existed previously, yet not as a multiplicity of substances, but rather of that reality as a quantum of existence in it, and the unity of substance was only a way of existing, which through this division alone is transformed into a plurality of subsistence."
"Here, however, we are considering only the content of the action: the mere fact that they all involve taking another person's property."
"Limitation of the validity of the moral proof Pure reason, regarded as a practical faculty, a capacity, that is to say, for determining the pure employment of our causality by means of ideas, or pure rational concepts, not only possesses in its moral law a principle which is regulative of our actions, but by virtue of that law it furnishes at the same time an additional principle which, from a subjective point of view, is constitutive."
"What objective unity self consciousness is."
"The quality of quantum, its conceptual determinateness, is its externality as such, and in ratio quantum is now posited as having its determinateness in this externality, in another quantum as being in its beyond what it is."
"Object Objecte Object Object"
"But it follows from this that the dialectical inference to the conditions of every thought in general, which is itself unconditioned, does not commit a mistake in content"
"A composite concept, however, is but the equivalent of a wooden iron."
"The single occurrence of lightning,.g., is apprehended as a universal, and this universal is enunciated as the law of electricity; the 'explanation' then condenses the law into Force as the essence of the law."
"the ancestral enemy, of true philosophical method."
"Third, when the difference of matter and form, of subject matter and thought, is not left in this nebulous indeterminacy but is more specifically defined, each turns out to be a sphere divorced from the other."
"A privative nothing,.e."
"The simplicity of their being, their resting just on themselves, is absolute negativity; it is the freedom of their reflectionle immediacy."
"What appears here as the power and authority of the individual eXf'rcised over the substance, which is thereby superseded, is the same thing as the actualization of the substance."
"To what extent am I permitted to use force or to endanger my own life or even that of another person in order to prevent a robbery On the one hand, it may be the case that the state is able to help, if not right away, then at least after the fact."
"This formal or subjective factor consisted in that the middle mediating the extremes is the concept as an abstract determination and is therefore distinct from the terms whose unity it is."
"This much, however, can be asserted: what is commanded by the moral law must fall completely within the sphere of our physical power, and with this we have warded off from the start any objection that it might be impossible to satisfy the moral law."
"The pointing out of the Now is thus itself the movement which expresses what the Now is in truth, viz."
"But it would then be nothing more than an external quantum whereas by the exponent we are to understand here nothing but the qualitative moment itself that specifies the quantum as such."
"The extreme of formalism into which one can be misled in these matters can be seen from the penetrating general exposition by my respected colleague, Prof. Dirksen, of the fundamental determinations used in the deduction of differential calculus."
"For the moral law satisfactorily proves its own reality, even for the critique of speculative reason, by supplementing a causality thought merely negatively, the possibility of which was incomprehensible to speculative reason but which it nonetheless needed to assume, by positive determination of this causality viz."
"The other, for its part, truly confronts an existence only with this sublation; it confronts the first something only externally, or, since the two are in fact inherently joined together, that is, according to their concept, their connectedness consists in this, that existence has passed over into otherness, something into other; that something is just as much an other as the other is."
"This first consciousness which turns its back on its actual existence,and makes itself into a superseded particular consciousness, thereby displays itself as in fact a universal."
"In his situation, the in so far as they are decision in favour of one assertion or the other likewise depends on subjective arbitrariness."
"Since immanent self."
"Description is for representation; it collects this extra content that belongs to reality."
"There is nothing we can do immediately in order to further the unhindered mutual influence of body and soul upon each other; but if the body and the soul are each maintained properly in and of themselves, then such mutual influence will follow on its own."
"The I that can be changed through every act of willing and"
"This universality is therefore only a commonality of self subsisting singulars, an association of such singulars as comes about only by way of comparison."
"This point is demonstrated in other parts of philosophy, and it will also have to be brought into play later on in our present science."
"Thus freedom and nature, each in its full significance, would both be found in the same actions, simultaneously and without any contradiction, according to whether one compares them with their intelligible or their sensible cause."
"Particularity constitutes at first the middle term by uniting within itself, immediately, the two moments of singularity and universality."
"Now inasmuch as in a first moment synthetic cognition passes over from abstract identity to relation, or from being to reflection, it is not the absolute reflection of the concept that the latter recognizes in its subject matter; the reality that the concept gives itself is the next stage, namely the said identity in diversity as such, an identity that equally is, therefore, still inner, and only necessity; it is not the subjective identity existing for itself, hence not as yet the concept as such."
"The state, as spirit, is divided up into the particular determinations of its concept or mode of being."
"We must investigate what duty demands in such a case; therefore we must also discuss in duties with respect to conflict between the formal freedom of rational beings."
"But the constitution of our understanding, as engaged upon things in the shape of natural ends, is such that our power of meeting all demands from the unaided resources of mechanical explanation is not only very limited, but is also circumscribed within clearly marked bounds."
"But it is also guaranteed by the indifference and scorn which shallow and malicious talk quickly and inevitably brings down upon itself."
"Monarchs are not exactly distinguished by their physical powers or intellect Geist yet millions accept them as their rulers."
"The corporeal element, however, in which it acts as cause is the organ, but the organ not of action against external reality, but of the internal action of the self conscious being operating outwards only against its own body."
"it is the substantial identity of subject and predicate, in view of which the distinguishing mark of each is only an unessential positedness or even only a name; in its predicate, the subject is reflected into its being in and foritself."
"It has now attained the determination of objectivity, but, as a moment of the concept, this complete difference is enclosed within the simple unity of the concept Now in so far as purpose is this total reflection of objectivity into itself and is such immediately, in the first place, the self determination or the particularity as simple reflection into itself is distinguished from the concrete form, and is a determinate content."
"what has been posited in the foregoing is in the first instance only the Notion of Force, not its reality."
"Yet by taking the singular representation of the object of the judgement of taste, and by comparison converting it into a concept according to the conditions determining that judgement, we can arrive at a logically universal judgement."
"Knox's suggestion of (Knox,."
"The highest to which they attain on the side of this finitude is external purposiveness."
"It is easily seen, that an aesthetic idea is the counterpart (pendant) of a rational idea, which, conversely, is a concept, to which no intuition (representation of the imagination) can be adequate."
"Hence we only apply the term 'purposive' to the object on account of its representation being immediately coupled with the feeling of pleasure: and this representation itself is an aesthetic representation of the purposiveness."
"Hence the objective use of the pure concepts of reason is always transcendent, while that of the pure concepts of understanding must by its nature always be immanent, since it is limited solely to possible experience."
"It is even more remarkable, however, that in order to understand the possibility of things in accordance with the categories, and thus to es tablish the objective reality of the latter, we do not merely need intuitions, but always outer intuitions."
"The more sagacious among these opponents say that what we are conscious of in these cases is by no means the fact that these states have no external ground, but only that we are not conscious of these grounds."
"Hence the idea of it is inseparably bound up with the essence of our reason."
"Now, although with division or with the particular the distinction of universal and particular is duly introduced, this universal is nevertheless itself already something determinate and therefore itself only a member of a division."
"This explanation leaves it incomprehensible how such an agreement between two things that are completely heterogeneous and independent of each other is even possible something that is not even supposed to be comprehensible from the viewpoint of ordinary consciousness."
"If, merely so that nothing empty is left in our reason, we a Object Bedeutung Principien are allowed to make good this lack of complete determination by means of a mere idea of the highest perfection and original necessity, then we could be permitted this only by special favor, but it cannot be demanded by the right of an irresistible proof."
"; lifts these into the simple Ideas of the Beautiful and the."
"But the farthest we can get is this."
"On the Principles of Pure Practical Reason"
"Through this commerced the appearances, insofar as they stand outside one another and yet in connection, constitute a composite (compositum reale), and composites!"
"Consequently I confuse the possible abstraction from my empirically determined existence with the supposed consciousness of a separate possible existence of my thinking Self, and believe that I cognize what is substantial in me as a transcendental subject, since I have in thought merely the unity of consciousness that grounds everything determinate as the mere form of cognition."
"this force which alone is at the same time the mighty power causing the transition of the determinacies."
"That is to say, in the law the difference itself is grasped immediately and taken up into the universal, thereby, however, giving the moments whose relation is expressed by the law a subsistence in the form of indifferent and merely implicit essentialities."
"To facilitate our survey, one should note that the condition of I hood that was just indicated is a condition for the I's causality, a causality that is demanded by the moral law."
"But the will is not tied to something limited; on the contrary, it must proceed further, for the nature of the vill is not this one sidedness and restriction."
"Thus only mathematics contains demonstrations, since it does not derive its cognition from concepts, but from their construction,.e., from the intuition that can be given a priori corresponding to the con cepts."
"Among the conundrumsb of the ancient dialectical schools was this question: I a ball does not pass through a hole,"
"As remarked, the finitude of rationality has this side, that purpose relates to the object as a presupposition, that is, as external."
"The All without limits, however, is absolute unity, and carries with it the concept of one single being, namely the highest being; and thus reason infers that the highest being, as the original ground of all things, exists in an absolutely necessary way."
"The major premise contains the rule."
"For if they decide in favor of the first (which is generally the position of the mathematical investigators of na ture), then they must assume two eternal and infinite self subsisting non entities (space and time), which exist (yet without there being anya Object Principim thing real) only in order to comprehend everything real within themselves."
"Now, in actuality, the substance that knows exists earlier than its form or its Notion determined 'shape'."
"If light were not given to the senses, then one would also not be able to represent darkness, and if extended beings were not perceived, one would not able to represent space."
"Hence using the nature of the world of sense as the type of an intelligible nature is also permitted, so long as I do not transfer to the latter any intuitions and what depends on them, but refer to it merely the form of lawfulness as such (the concept of which occurs even in the commone understanding, though it cannot determinately be cognized a priori for any aim other than just the pure practical use of reason)."
"Consciousness declares its conviction; it is in this 'conviction alone that the action is a duty; also it is valid as duty solely through the conviction being declared."
"Such a state of willing by no means emerges from the state he is in, which instead yields the opposite state, one that holds him in check and fetters him."
"But where the public holds that subtle sophistsd are after nothing less than to shake the foundation of the public welfare, then it seems not only prudent but also permissi"
"also have the courage to risk their lives."
"Likewise, from sociability as the middle term, the community of goods among citizens can be inferred; however, from individuality as the middle term, if the term is pressed with equal abstractness, there follows the dissolution of the state, as for example it did follow for the German Empire from adhering to that middle term."
"This is either that of self love, a paramount benevolen toward oneself (philautia), or that of liking for oneself (arrogantia)."
"The relation, then, of these two, since each exists indivisibly and absolutely for itself, and thus cannot dispose of a middle term which would link them together, is one of wholly unmediated pure negation, a negation, moreover, of the individual as a being existing in the universal."
"pure essentiality and pure difference; and in this category ie just in the positedness of the 'other', or in this 'other' itself, consciousness is equally itself."
"The syllogism surely we must credit the study of the forms of reason with an even more important influence on the correctness of thinking."
"In this case, my property will necessarily have priority; for I will naturally notice the danger to it first, and thus I will first apprehend that I am required by the moral law to save my own property, and a person already attending to his own particular business may not attend to any other business at the same time."
"They constitute determining reflection as exclusive; for the excluding is one act of distinguishing and each of the distinguished beings, as exclusive, is itself the whole act of excluding, and so each excludes itself internally."
"In this realm, the substantial unity of the finite and the infinite is present, but only as a mysterious substratum, banished as a dim recollection into the recesses HoMen and images of tradition."
"The expression 'the many' (ot. denotes empirical universality more accurately than the usual term 'air."
"This is partly because they at least strain after something lying out beyond the confines of experience, and so seek to approximate to a presentation of rational concepts (i.e. intellectual ideas), thus giving to these concepts the semblance of an objective reality."
"Within social needs, as a combination of immediate or natural needs and the spiritual needs of repre ltatiollal thought Vorstelltmg the spiritual needs, as the universal, predominate."
"However, I also do not demand that through this concept I should be theoretically acquainted wi the constitution of a being insofar as it has a pure will; it is enough for me that through this concept"
"And in fact their typical method of cognition is most immanently."
"Accordingly, all that is left on this view is the simple representation 'I,' a representation entirely devoid of content, of which one cannot even say that it is a concept, but must say that it is a mere consciousness, one that accompanies every concept Now, as Kant argues further, this 'I,' or, if you prefer, this 'it' (the thing) that thinks, takes us no further than the representation of a transcendental subject of thoughts, a subject which is known only through the thoughts that are its predicates, and of which, taken in isolation, we cannot ever have the least concept"
"Something is in itself in so far as it has returned from the being for other back to itself."
"And yet, as was previously pointed out, one might still wish to explain this appearance further and could thereby transform it into an illusion."
"But, in fact, because both are themselves the universal or the essence, both are essential."
"The history of this rev olution in the way of thinking which was far more important than the discovery of the way around the famous Cape and of the lucky one who brought it about, has not been preserved for us."
"This completeness still lacks that actual world of self consciousness which belongs as to the vain consciousness the world out of which"
"In this self unity of the substrate the determination of measure is a sublated determination, its quality an external state determined by quantum."
"The absolute definitions that are immediately assumed in the science from the start."
"Denn substituted in the second edition for Nun."
"Consequently; others do not find in this content the fulfilment of the law of their hearts, butrather that of someone else; and, precisely in accordance with the universal law that each shall find in what is law his own heart, they turn against the reality he set up, just ashe turned against theirs."
"It is usual, therefore, to consider it as itself something conditioned and to ask for a new condition, whereby the customary progression ad infinitum from condition to condition is set in motion."
"For whatever might appropriately be said about philosophy in a preface say a historical statement of the main drift and the point of view, the general content and results, a string of random assertions and assurances about truth none of this can be accepted as the way in which to expound philosophical truth."
"But as regards the question of the application, this much follows directly from the nature of the fact itself, because of the form which the moments of Quantum a power assume as demonstrated, without having to infer it from individual cases of the application itself."
"The understanding, on the other hand, is at its disposal, but always only under a certain condition that must be given."
"These two principles are not capable of being applied in conjunction to one and the same thing in nature as co ordinate truths available for the explanation or deduction of one thing by or from another."
"It is the privilege of philosophy to choose such expressions from the language of ordinary life, which is made for the world of imaginary representations, as seem to approximate the determinations of the concept There is no question of demonstrating for a word chosen from ordinary life that in ordinary life too the same concept is associated with that for which philosophy uses it, for ordinary life has no concepts, only representations of the imagination, and to recognize the concept in what is otherwise mere representation is philosophy itself."
"Quantum, as indifferent limit, surpasses itself into the infinite; it thereby seeks nothing else than its being determined for itself, the qualitative moment which, however, is only an ought."
"The universal is in and for itself the first moment of the concept, because it is the simple, and the particular only comes after it, because it is the mediated; and conversely the simple is the more universal, and the concrete, since it is internally differentiated and hence mediated, is what already presupposes the transition from a first."
"But according to what was said earlier, I am not concerned with my own preservation"
"If so, then we will have to point out that in what follows the proposition that serves as the ground of the above claim will be restricted, and we will see that both assertions can very well stand alongside each other."
"In the preceding section we proved that if there is no such drive, then the self consciousness of I hood is impossible; for in that case consciousness of an indeterminacy, which is a condition for the self consciousness of I hood, is impossible."
"neither must it be invented and assumed at one's discretion."
"He must then proceed toward that concerning which we all ought to be in agreement."
"that is, an identity of the dependent which is only implicit, whether it is apprehended as internal or as external, and in which that which in it constitutes reality,"
"Now although the appearances are not things in themselves, and nevertheless are the only thing that can be given to us for cognition, I still have to show what sort of combination in time per tains to the manifold in the appearances itself even though the repre sentation of it in apprehension is always successive."
"Their basic content is the same, but in drives, this content still belongs to the inImediate will and to natural sensation and has not developed far enough to attain the determination of the ethical."
"Morality itself thus exists in another being than."
"ly that external cl ects Ditlgel eJl."
"But quantity is concrete unity only in so far as it is the unity of distinct moments."
"A bad state, of course, is purely secular and finite, but the rational state is infinite within itself."
",hich contains the truth about itself, viz."
"Consequently, the sense element is still present, but not in the way it was supposed to be in the position of immediate certainty: not as the singular item that is 'meant', but as a universal, or as that which will be defined as a prope.rty."
"If, namely, the True exists only in what, or better as what, is sometimes called intuition, sometimes immediate knowledge of the Absolute, religion or being not at the centre of divine love but the being of the divine love itself"
"The thought of lying requires something positively evil: a deliberate search for some crooked path that will allow one to avoid proceeding along the straight path that offers itself to us."
"But self consciousness has at first become simply for itself, not yet as a unity with consciousness in general."
"This belief in the nothingness of necessity and in the underworld becomes belief in Heaven, because the departed self must unite with its universality, must explicate in this universality what it contains and thus become clear to itself."
"When in other respects it is said of Spirit that it is, that it has being, is a Thing, a single, separate reality, this is not intended to mean that it is something we can see or take in our hands or touch, and so on, but that is what is said; and what really is said is expressed by saying that the being of Spirit is a bone."
"It is my life that is a means, not my death."
"the outcry which this viewpoint and others produced overlooked the fact that the Jews are primarily human beings; this is not just a neutral and abstract quality (see Remarks to, for its consequence is that the community owns property and otherwise performs acts of wor ship with the help of individuals employed for this purpose, it emerges from the inner realm into that of worldly affairs and hence into the province of the state, thereby placing itself immediately under its laws."
"Only then is it conceived and expressed as an actuality."
"However, as thus locked up within itself, moral self consciousness is not yet posited and considered as consciousness."
"In the unity of the something with itself, being for other is identical with its in itself; the being for other is thus in the something."
"(For these representations one and all affect the feeling of life, and none of them, so far as it is a modification of the subject, can be indifferent.)"
"We have really established this necessity of a first beginning of a series of appearances from freedom only to the extent that this is required to make comprehensible an origin of the world, since one can take all the subsequent states to be a result of mere natural laws."
"To quarrel over such points with the idea of condemning another's judgement as incorrect when it differs from our own, as if the opposition between the two judgements were logical, would be folly."
"But, in this picture thinking, reaHtydoes not receive its perfect due, viz; to be not merely a guise but anindependent freeexistence; and;conver,beca use it,lacks perfection within itselfit"
"Science claim that such rapturous haziness is superior to Science."
"The principle of taste, therefore, exhibits the following antinomy:."
"For a consciousness that sensuously sees and hears Him is itself a merely immediate consciousness,whichbas not overcome the disparity of objectivity, has not taken it back into pure thought: it knows this objective individual, but not itself, as Spirit."
"In other words, it must lead to the presupposition of the existen of a cause adequate to this effect;.e."
"The expression 'an aesthetic judgement of an object' therefore signifies that a given representation is indeed related to an object, but such a judgement conveys the determination of the subject and its feeling rather than that of the object."
"Inquire from duty rather than from mere, empty curiosity or simply in order to keep yourself busy."
"The identity of the content with itself is, therefore, in one respect that identity which is indifferent to form, but in another the identity of ground."
"a simple togetherness of a plurality; but the many are, in their determinateness, simple un'iversals themselves."
"Within me and before my own consciousness, the moral law does not address itself to other individuals outside me but has them only as objects."
"the real and this ideal realm"
"Now, through an apodeictic practical law, as necessary conditions of the possibility of what this law commands one to make one 's object, they acquire objective"
"In this lies also the dissolution, the nothingness, of the law of diversity."
"The actuality and lasting existence of what it does is universal self consciousness; but the declaration of conscience affirms the certainty of itself to be pure self, and thereby to be a universal self."
"Each of these proofs is drawn from the nature of the case, and any advantage that could be given to us by the fallacies of dogmatists on either side is to be set aside."
"that the work comes closer to the self consciousness performing it and that the latter, in the work, comes to know itself as it is in its truth."
"Just as little are they, moreover, a restriction for one another, for their negative connection is only the impotent 'this.'"
"This self identical essence is therefore related only to itself; 'to itself implies relationship to an 'other', and the reiation tQ ,selj is rather a self sundering; or, in other words, that very self iden ticalness is an inner difference, These sundered moments are thus in andJor themselves each an opposite of an other; thus in each moment the 'other' is at the sa,me time expressed; or each is not the opposite of an 'other' but only a pure opposite; and so each is therefore in its own self the opp.osite of itself."
"But good or evil always signifies a reference to the will insofar as the will is determined by the law of reason to make something its object as, indeed, the will is never determined directly by the object and the presentation of it, but is a power to make a rule of reason the motivating cause of an action (through which an object can become actual)."
"The further antinomies and shapes assumed by this peren nial obligation, among which the merely moral point of view of relationship simply drifts to."
"But with that, absolutely nothing new is known."
"The schema of community (reciprocity), or of the reciprocal causal ity of substances with regard to their accidents, is the simultaneity of the determinations of the one with those of the other, in accordance with a general rule."
"Natural science (Physica) contains within itself synthetic a priori judgments as principles.d"
"But since the mere form of cognition, however well it may agree with logical laws, is far from sufficing to constitute the material (objective) truth of the cognition, nobody can dare to judge of objects and to assert anything about them merely with logic without having drawn on antecedently well founded information about them from outside oflogic, in order subsequently merely to investigate its use and connection in a coherent whole according to logical laws, or, bet ter, solely to examine them according to such laws."
"Since virtues are the ethical in its particular application, and since, in this subjective respect, they are indeterminate, the quantitative principle of more or less will play a part in their determination."
"Second, the concept is thereby posited as this particular or determinate concept, distinct from others."
"What is found is here posited in opposition to what is produced by us."
", the wall in front of you, your desk, or something similar."
"this Critique, on the other hand, the paramount concern must be to keep the term Beschaffenheit when used in this sense from being confused with Charakter ('character')"
"Yet the distinction between the important and the unimportant disappears if subjectivity of conviction and adherence to such conviction are the sole criterion."
"This 'ought' therefore implies a necessity which is clearly differentiated from that physico mechanical necessity through which a thing is 'First to the Critique of Judgement possible under the laws of efficient causes alone (with any preceding idea), and it can no more be determined through mere empirical and physical laws than the necessity belonging to aesthetic judgements can be determined through psychological ones."
"This same use of the understanding produces that psychological view of history which contrives to belittle and debase all great deeds and individuals by transforming into the main intention and effec tive spring Triebftder of actions those inclinations and passions which were simultaneously satisfied by substantial activity, along with fame and honour and other consequences indeed that whole particular aspect which it had declared in advance to be inherently inferior."
", what must be tbought as subject and not as predicate."
"But on the other hand since he is unable to help himself completely by this means, he also seeks to rid himself of any respect that has been forced from him for anything outside of himself and thereby to rid himself of the contempt for himself that this produces; he attempts to do this by persuading himself that his respect is merely folly and fanatical enthusiasm, that nothing whatsoever is worthy of respect, is noble and sublime, that everything is only semblance and illusion, that no human being is any better than he himself and neither is human nature as such."
"all of nature is comprehended and grasped under this unified"
"To contrive new words where the language already has no lack of expressions for given concepts is a childish endeavor to distinguish oneself from the crowd, if not by new and true thoughts then at least by new patches on the old garment"
"All falseness, all lies, all spite and perfidy exist because there are oppressors; and anyone who subjugates others must be prepared for the same."
"We can now confirm this assertion, which seemed bold at first glance, regarding the two questions in which pure reason has its greatest interest, and thereby bring our consideration of reason's dialectic to full completion."
"itselfjust declared to be untrue."
"In the simple moral action ofconscience duties are lumped together in such a way that all these singl entities are straightway demolished, and the sifting of them in the steadfast certainty of conscience to ascertain what our duty is, simply does not take place."
"Without man, in other words, the whole of creation would be a mere wilderness, a thing in vain, and have no final end."
"quite empirically attributes (thought and extension) and then modes, affects, and all the remaining."
"Particular laws, because they concern em pirically determined appearances, cannot be completely derived from the categories, although they all stand under them."
"nothing but the dignity of a separate name, betokening, maybe, a certain blend of both the above named kinds of delight, would be left in its stead."
"It is individuality Einzelheit the se/f detenllinatiotl of the '!',"
"Now, because negativity is understood here not as a movement of the process, but as a unity brought to rest, or as a simple being or selj, it appears rather as that by which the thing resists the process and inwardly preserves itself, as indifferent towards it."
"from which they could be derived despite their variety: that would be a transcendental principle of reason, which would make systematic unity not merely something subjectively and logically necessary, as method, but objectively necessary."
"Where then is the world of the beautiful spirit?"
"And we must regard the one or the being of the Eleatics as the first instance of knowledge by thought."
":= di::::a::: Saclze."
"the immediacy of seeing, and the certaintyand assurance that both have about their knowing; but the one tru th vanishes in the other."
"Thus all manifold of intuition has a necessary relation to the"
", it is the negativ.e essence, as simple."
"the synthetic a priori cognition of this can never yield a priori more than the mere rule of the synthesis of that which perception may give a posteriori, but never the intuition of the real object, since this must necessarily be empirical."
"Consequently, it knows that will to be itself, and knows itself to be essential being; but not essential being as an immediate existence, not will as revolutionary government or anarchy striving to establish anarchy, nor itself as the centre of this faction or the opposite faction; on the contrary, the universal will is its pure knowing and willing"
"One can only learn to philoso phize,.e., to exercise the talent of reason in prosecuting its general principlesd in certain experiments that come to hand, but always with the reservation of the right of reason to investigate the sources of these principles themselves and to confirm or reject them."
"This, however, would restrict the activity and the being of the personality to a branch of the whole, to one kind of activity and being; when placed in the element of being, personality would have the significance of a specific personality; it would cease to be in truth universal self consciousness."
"Gr. conditioned and the totality of conditions for it were both false."
"The spontaneity in the play of the cognitive faculties whose harmonious accord contains the ground of this pleasure, makes the concept in question, in its consequences, a suitable mediating link connecting the realm of the concept of nature with that of the concept of freedom, as this accord at the same time promotes the receptivity of the mind for moral feeling."
"the feeling of pleasure also is determined by a ground which is a priori and valid for all human beings: and that, too, merely by virtue of the reference of the object to our faculty of cognition."
"And this we may rest upon a corresponding intellectual intuition,"
"an absolute empirical will, is supposed to be the law for all of nature outside us, both the irrational and the free parts of the same."
"Now suppose that morality necessarily presupposes freedom (in the strictest sense) as a property of our will, citing a priori as data for this freedom certain original practical principles lying in our reason, which would be absolutely impossible without the presupposition of lX freedom, yet that speculative reason had proved that freedom cannot be thought at all, then that presupposition, namely the moral one, would necessarily have to yield to the other one, whose opposite contains an obvious contradiction; consequently freedom and with it morality (for the latter would contain no contradiction if freedom were not already presupposed) would have to give way to the mechanism of nature."
"True, in the Critique of Practical Reason we did actually derive a priori from universal moral concepts the feeling of respect (as a particular and peculiar modification of this feeling which does not strictly answer either to the pleasure or displeasure which we receive from empirical objects)."
"equa to the moral law is infinite, because all possible happiness, in the judgment of a wise and all powerful distributor of it, has no restriction other than the lack of adequacy of rational beings to their duty."
"In transcendental idealism, this category has the meaning that it is the connection of the subject matter to thought."
"Accordingly, what is posited in the categorical syllogism are, on the one hand, extremes that are so related to the middle term that they have objective universality or self subsistent nature in themselves, and are at the same time immediate actualities, hence indifferent to one another."
"It is opposed to the cognition of nature, which pertains to no objects, or their predicates, except those that can given in a possible experience."
"Yet it is by virtue of their determinateness that the species constitute the universality of the predicate."
"in this presen world the moral individual often fares badly, while the immoral indivi."
"I possess is therefore"
"The unconditioned unity of quality.e., not as a real whole but rather simple."
"Actuality is perceptibility, the capacity to be sensed Empfindbarkeit and this is necessarily posited, not with respect to its being Wesen but with respect to its form alone."
"Being thus comes to be determined as essence, as a being in which everything determined and finite is negated."
", of a pure will, yet it is not on that account to be considered the determining basis of that will, and the moral law alone must be regarded as the basis for making the highest good and the effectuation or furtherance thereof one's object."
"The worth of a human being is measured by his inward actions, and hence the point of view of morality is that of freedom which has being for itself. ."
"This can only be seen as an admission that this method of explaining from grounds does not satisfy its own expectations, that it itself demands something quite different from such grounds."
"For at first, before its complete exposition, the form is only internally or, which is the same, only externally; it is at first determinate form in general or negation in general."
"Consequently, also indifferent is now which of the two determinations of this proposition is taken as predicate or subject, and whether the determination is taken in the syllogism as the extreme of singularity or the extreme of particularity, hence as the minor or major term."
"This alone is what it declares, and this declaration is the true actuality of the act, and the validating of the action."
"Something is however already a determinate existent that distinguishes itself from another something; consequently, the nothing which is being opposed to something is also the nothing of a certain something, a determinate nothing."
"One must take this objectively if one understands by it the archetype for the assessmentb of all attempts to philosophize, which should serve to as sess each subjective philosophy, the structure of which is often so man ifold and variable."
"It is, therefore, Just as little in earnest about the holiness of this other being, for inthis something was supposed to obtain an essentiality which for the moral consciousness;, ie."
"The basis for the affinity founded on the general opposition of negative and positive electricity must here give way, therefore, to a mere 'more or less' within one and the same series of electrical determinateness."
"The consequence is that there is something always lacking to the amount expressed in the series, so that the posited amount must always be gone beyond in order for the required determinateness to be attained."
"An objective principle of taste is not possible A principle of taste would mean a fundamental premiss under the condition of which one might subsume the concept of an object, and then, by a syllogism, draw the inference that it is beautiful."
"If something conditioned is commanded, then the condition thereof is also commanded."
"The foregoing discussion contains also the criterion for Cavalieri's method of indivisibles referred to abo a method which the criterion also justifies and one that does not need the recourse to the infinitely small."
"On the contrary, the certainty is now to be found in the opposite element, viz."
"If we examine this notion the activity that is associated with it, we might well imagine that no state or constitution had ever previously existed or were in existence today, but that we had now (and this 'now' is of indefinite duration) to start right from the beginning, and that the ethical world had been waiting only for such intellectual constructions, discoveries, and now available."
"Determinateness is in it still only a state,"
"The Doctrine of Essence are self subsisting but, as such, at the same time conjoined in the unity of essence."
"It is determined through other intensive quanta and is continuous with its otherness, so that its determinateness consists in this connection with it."
"But this moral teleology deals with us for all that as beings of the world and, therefore, as beings associated with other things in the world; and the same moral laws enjoin us to turn our consideration to these other things in the world, regarded either as ends, or as objects in respect of which we ourselves are the final end."
"Indeed, this way of thinking is even more dangerous than the first, purely sensible way of thinking."
"It is no doubt the case that in an animal body, for example, many parts might be explained as accretions on simple mechanical laws (as skin, bone, hair)."
"We must know exactly what is meant by this saying which is otherwise often used as a slogan."
"If one considers an actual, noticeable movement of transition, then one has an act of willing."
"Taking possession of a thing Sache makes its matter my property, <U+FFFD>atter in itself"
"Initially, the family is the substantial whole whose task it is to provide for this particular aspect of the individual, both by giving him the means and skills he requires in order to earn his living from the universal resources, and by supplying his livelihood and maintenance in the event of his incapacity to look after himself."
"It is better than it thinks, for its action is at the same time an implicitly universal action,"
"But it does not deal at all satisfactorily with the question about its own existence, though that is really all that was at issue; and to those who assume the existence of a necessary being, and would only know which among all things had to a Principium auszeichnet A"
"All that seems necessary for an introduction or a preliminary is that there are two stems of human cognition, which may perhaps arise from a com mon but to us unknown root, namely sensibility and understanding, through the first of which objects are given to us, but through the second of which they are thought."
"This Demos, the general mass, which knDws itself as lord and ruJer, and is also aware Dfbeing the intelligence and insight which demand respect, constrained and befooled thrDugh the particularity of its actual existence, and exhibits the ludicrous contrast between its own Dpinion Df itself and its immediate existence, between its necessity and cDntingency, its universality and its mmDnness, If the principle of its individuality, separated fro.m the universal, makes itself conspicuous in the proper shape Df an actual existence and openly usurps and administers the commDnwealth to which it is a secret detriment, then there is expDsed"
"itself become the basis of the existence of objects and insofar as reason, through this cognition, has causality in a rational being,.e., as a pure reason that can be regarded as a power directly determining the will."
"A law is enunciated; from this, its implicitly universal element or ground is distinguished as Force; but it is said that this difference is no difference, rather that the ground is constituted exactly the same as the law."
"It is not the transition into another, not reference to another outside it; it has its other, identity, within, and in like manner identity, in being included in the determination of difference, has not lost itself in it as its other but retains itself therein"
"Now metaphysics, according to the concepts we will give of it here, is the only one of all the sciences that may promise that little but unified effort, and that indeed in a short time, will complete it in such a way that nothing remains to posterity except to adapt it in a didactic manner to its in tentions, yet without being able to add to its content in the least."
"Since this Spirit is determined as at first an immediate existence, or as dispersed into the multifariousness of its consciousness, its othering of itself is the withdrawal into itself, or self centredness, of knowing as such."
"its actuality, vanishes, just as in the moral cQllsciousness,or in thu actuality of morality, the harmony vanishes."
"that it affects the cognition against which it is directed and, in the view of skepticism and likewise of the Kantian philosophy, cognition in general."
"What is demanded is, there fore, really something free of all specific content."
"English trans., A Treatise of Algebra, with an Application of it to a Variety of Problems in Arithmetic, to Trigonometry, and Conic Sections."
"Ethics wholly disapproves of this, and prudence would have to disapprove of it as well; for only what is true and good persists in humanity, whereas what is false fades away, no matter how much it might glitter in the beginning."
"But even so, conscience is free from any content"
"There are two antithetical forms of this relation: one is a relationship to the state power and wealth as to something"
"the passive separatednessofthe shapes in the general medium of independence, and the process of Life, collapse into one another."
"The duty to spread and to promote morality immediately So far we have seen that we have a duty to protect and to promote the formal freedom of our fellow human beings, for we are obliged to regard everyone with a human face as a tool of the moral law."
"Thus, the progression of thought here is from the specific quality of the thing Sache to a stage at which this determinate quality is indifferent, ie that of quantity."
"This stage is the process of the individual as it refers to itself, where the externality is the individual's immanent moment and is, besides, itself a living totality, an objectivity which for the individual is the individual itself an externality in which the individual has certainty of itself not as being sublated, but as subsisting."
"On the other hand, this very same concept cannot make its object valid as a matter of fact, for although the necessity of duty is quite plain for practical reason, yet the attainment of its final end, so far as it does not lie entirely in our own hands, is merely assumed in the interests of the practical employment of reason, and, therefore, is not practically necessary in the way duty itself is."
"This notion Einfam of ignoring the state's infinity and ra /ality in and for itself and of banishing thought from the apprehension of its inner nature has probably never appeared in so unadulterated a form as in Herr von Haller's Restoration ofPolitical Science."
"For according to the Notion of faith it is nothing else"
"shall we find it in its principles, and the further our experience advances the more harmonious"
"consciousness is in the form of consciousness, and the whole expanse of the sensuous world is pr served for it, but at the same time only as connected with the second moment, the unity of self consciousness with itself; and hence the sen llS world is for it an enduring existence Which, however, is only (lppearance, or a difference which, in itself, is no difference."
"Whatever it is that the individual does, and whatever happens to him, that he has done himself, and he is that himself."
"The Second Book of the Transcendental Dialectic Chapter Three"
"In accordance with its universal determination, this formal aspect of the will contains in the first place the opposition between subjectivity and objectivity and the activity associated with this opposition"
"If many Protestants have recendy gone over to the Catholic Church,!"
"Science on its part requires that self consciousness should have raised itself into this Aether in order to be able to live and actually to live with Science and in Science."
"Since on the usual assumption which of the premises is supposed to be the major or the minor depends on this distinction, this too has now become a matter of indifference."
"By ignoring the consequence, the fact and the theory contradicting it are left to rest untroubled side by side."
"It is not to be regarded as a matter of no consequence that the above expression should be confused with that of a divine end in the ordering of nature, or that the latter should even be passed off as the more appropriate and the one more becoming to a pious soul, on the ground that, say what we will, it must eventually come back to our deriving these purposive forms in nature from a wise Author of the universe."
"This proposition needs to be determined more precisely."
"that the excellent exercises over the hearts, if not over the minds, of men; also the constructive unfolding into universality and determinateness of form in which its perfection consists, and which alone makes it possible for this universality to be used in a superficial way."
"In or ab the and are independent determinate quanta and the connection is not essential to them; a and are likewise intended to represent quanta which remain as they are outside the relation."
"If, then, arbitrariness is given precedence over the right of the sub stantial as a result of the servitude of children and the other determinations referred to above or associated with these, and not least because divorce was easy to obtain in Rome so that even Cicero (and what fine things he has written about honestum and decorum in his De OfficiiI'"
"For this word designates the relation of the representations to the original apperception and its necessary unity, even if the judgment itself is empirical, hence contingent,"
"Substances (in appearance) are the substrata of all time determinations."
"Surely we may pardon this admiration if, as the result of a misapprehension, it is inclined to rise by degrees to extravagant heights."
"Dilzge and thereby proves that they are not absolutely self sufficient."
"See the Critique of Pure Reason, A A. That the previously mentioned properties are not suitable for cognition of the object, thus can never be used for a theory of suprasensible beings, and hence cannot on the theoretical side be the basis of a speculative cognition."
"In this, being will posit itself in three determinations:"
"Just as it is the case in the being for itself of quantum as degree, the nature of the independent measure has turned into this self externality."
"Formal possibility is immanent reflection only as abstract identity, the absence of contradiction in a something."
"War is that con dition in which the vanity of temporal things Dinge and temporal goods which tends at other times to be merely a pious phrase takes on a serious significance, and it is accordingly the moment in which the ideality of the particular attains its right and becomes actuality."
"By exhortation to actions as noble, sublime, and magnanimous, minds are attuned to nothing but moral fanaticism and enhancement of self conceit."
"But this proliferation of arbitrariness generates universal determinations from within itself, and this apparently scattered and thoughtless activity is subject to a necessity which arises of its own accord."
"I thereby both becomes and remains an owner of property in concluding it: this is a contract of exchange."
"The system need only refuse to recognize those assumptions; the defect is such only for one who starts from such needs and requirements as are based on them."
"The aim of reason with its ideal is, on the contrary, a thoroughgoing determination in accordance with a priori rules; hence it thinks for itself an object that is to be thoroughly determinable in accordance with principles, a even though the sufficient conditions for this are absent from experience, and thus the concept itself is transcendent.b"
"Although in the latter it seems that pure morality alone has validity, the position must be put in another way, for it is at the same time a natural consciousness."
"These determinations stand over against each other as extremes and are one in a third term which is diverse from them."
"call, which rests on gratifying the inclinations, however delicately these may be excogitated, can never be adequate to what one thinks concerning it."
"Now as empirical cognition expands, it can well happen that species are discovered that do not fit the assumed determination of the genus, for the genus is usually adopted more in accordance with some obscure representation of the whole habitus than in accordance with the more or less singular mark that should expressly serve to determine it."
"In the former, the division of the whole into estates .' ,!."
"Yet it can never be permitted to ascribe such a faculty to substances in the world itself, because then the connection of appearances necessarily deter mining one another in accordance with universal laws, which one calls nature, and with it the mark of empirical truth, which distinguishes ex perience from dreaming, would largely disappear."
"Thus the moral law determines that which speculative philosophy had to leave undetermined, viz., the law for a causality the concept of which was only negative in speculative philosophy; and it thus first provides this concept with objective reality."
"In this way a supersensible real ground, although for us unknowable, would be procured for nature, and for the nature of which we ourselves form part."
"annoyance, which is an invigorating emotion; and we feel annoyed because we were driven by a propensity toward self sufficiency and because we decisively demanded what we wanted."
"It is the duty of the scholars to reflect and to cultivate their understanding systematically, for that is what is required of them by their estate."
"but rather they could reach as far as things in general and in themselves, which consequence would put an end to this whole critique and would bid us to leave things the same old way they were before."
"But there can be no question here of any such immediately present one taking precedence over another, for this would presuppose a determinate distinction between them; attraction is rather the positing of the given lack of distinction among the ones."
"At the same time, this consciousness as it exists here is one that has just now come into being, and hence is an immediate consciousness of its sub stance; and this is the specific way in which spiritual being is present here; it has not yet developed into a truly real substance."
"In fact the principle of the power of judgement, namely the purposiveness of nature in the specification of its universal laws, may not extend so far that we can infer the production of natural forms that are purposive in themselves (because even without them the system of nature under empirical laws, which is all that the power of judgement is justified in postulating, is possible), and this is something that must always be given through experience; but since we have reason to suppose a principle of the purposiveness of nature in its particular laws, it is still always possible and permissible, if experience shows us purposive forms amongst its products, to ascribe this to the same ground on which the first type of purposiveness may rest."
"But this content, liberated from the negative power controlling it, is the chaos ofspiritual powers which, in their unfettered freedom, become elemental beings raging madly against one another in a frenzy of destructive activity."
"Thus God and a future life are two presuppositions that are not to be separated from the obligation that pure reason imposes on us in accordance with principles of that very same reason."
"Accordingly, this process is on the one hand the turning back to its concept and the repetition of the first forcible separation, the coming to be of a new individuality and the death of the immediate first; but, on the other hand, the withdrawing into itself of the concept of life is the becoming of the concept that relates itself to itself, of the concept that exists for itself, universal and free, the transition into cognition."
"Now this subreption is the foundation of all theories about the community between soul and body, and it is never asked whether this objective reality of appearances is completely correct, but rather this is taken for granted, and the sophistry is only about the way this is to be explained and comprehended."
"All we have to do is provide a complete presentation of the conditions of I hood and show how these conditions are related to the drive for self sufficiency and how this drive is determined by these conditions: by doing this we will have provided an exhaustive account of the content of the moral law."
"Nature, as it reaches this idea starting from its externality, transcends itself; its end is not its beginning but is for it as a limit in which it sublates itself."
"Goethe's Mephistopheles a good authority says much the same thing in lines which I have also quoted elsewhere:"
"The determination, or middle term, is consciousness, seW consciousness, and so on."
"This is how we viewed the matter earlier."
"the selfsame being, rep.el myselffrom myself; but what is posited as distinct from me, or as unlike me, is immediately, in being so distinguished, not a distinction for me."
": there remains for observation the entire conti ngencyof their relation."
"for eqUd, UtIlediSt:ri ution of land or even of other available resources."
"Just as the realm of the real world passes over into the realm of faith and insight, so does absolute freedom leave its self destroying reality and pass over inJo another land of selfconscious Spirit where, in this unreal world, freedom has the value oftruth."
"will nevertheless occur whenever they lie in the nature of the Sache"
"But, on the other hand, since form posits itself as matter only in sublating itself, hence in presupposing matter, matter is also determined as Ground groundless subsistence."
"There is no need, therefore, to justify this concept here (apart from the fact that it emerges within logic itself."
", I I.L respecting his honour and freedOll<U+FFFD>."
"To be sure, they no longer have a duty of obedience toward their parents they are dismissed from this duty and are able to act only according to their own conviction; but they continue to have this duty to listen attentively and then to reflect upon their parent's advice."
"In order to obtain such aspects, the Understanding must keep to the other moment ofthe organic relationship, viz."
"In fact, also thoughtreflection, in so far as it operates externally, proceeds from something immediately given that is alien to it, and considers itself to be a merely formal operation that receives its material content from outside and of Shine itself only is a movement conditioned by that content."
"This unity is the reflection into itself of each and the positing of them; it is essence."
"It is physical nature itself that presents such a contingency in the principles of division; because of the external dependency of its actuality, it stands in a manifold of connectedness which for it is likewise given; there is, therefore, an assortment of principles to which it has to adapt itself, following one principle in one series of its forms but another in another series, while also producing hybrids that go in different directions at once."
"The unity of apperception, however, is the transcendental ground of the necessary lawfulness of all appearances in an experience."
"What could be more salutary than the legal proposal ofSto."
"weaknessmeaningsimilarIy a 'slight force'."
"rupted by any difference, but rather is itself every difference, as also their supersession; it pulsates within itself but does not move, inwardly vibrates, yet is at rest."
"The word begin is taken in two significations."
"The proposition I think is, however, taken here only problematically; not insofar as it may contain a perception of an existence (the Cartesian cogito, ergo sum) ,a but only in its mere possibility, in order to see which properties might flow from so simple a proposition as this for its subject (whether or not such a thing might now exist)."
"Jl!st as the specific need which it serves is at the same time need in leral and thus likewise comparable in its particularity '"
"It does not matter to him in the least whether the evil in question happens to be directed against him or against someone else, for he is for himself absolutely nothing more than everyone else is for him: a tool of the moral law."
"But, besides that, there is no denying the fact that all representations within us, no matter whether they are objectively merely sensible or wholly intellectual, are still subjectively associable with gratification or pain, however imperceptible either of these may be."
"Our entire cognitive faculty is, therefore, presented with an unbounded, but, also, inaccessible field"
"That simple being is the formless substance of the imagination for which the shine has not determined itself as shine, but which holds on, as on an absolute, to this indeterminate identity that has no truth"
"Hitherto, however, in the application of these expressions to the division of the different principles, and with them to the division of philosophy, a gross misuse of the terms has prevailed; for what is practical according to concepts of nature has been taken as identical with what is practical according to the concept of freedom, with the result that a division has been made under these heads of theoretical and practical, by which, in effect, there has been no division at all (seeing that both parts might have similar principles)."
"From this it may be seen that genius is a talent for producing that for which no definite rule can be given: and not an aptitude in the way of cleverness for what can be learned according to some rule; and that consequently originality must be its primary property."
"HumanJaw in its universal ex.istence is the community, in its activity in general is the manhood of the community, in its real and effective activity is the government."
"This will effect mere approbation and approv in the soul of the listener, because it is gain."
"It follows from these considerations that the movement of reflection is to be taken as an absolute internal counter repelling."
"the state ought even to require all its citizens to belong to such a community but to any community they please, for the state can have no say in the content of religious belief in so far as this relates to the internal dimension of representational thought."
"Thus they would properly have to be grounded on principles and universal con cepts of thinking nature in general."
"In Scepticism, consciousness truly experiences itself as internally contradictory."
"The concrete totality which makes the beginning possesses as such, within it, the beginning of the advance and development."
"Plato noted very well that our power of cognition feels a far higher need than that of merely spelling out appearances according to a synthetic unity in order to be able to read them as experience, and that our reason naturally exalts itself to cognitions that go much too far for any object that experience can give ever to be congruent, but that none theless have their reality and are by no means merely figments of the brain."
"The wealth ofsense know edge belongs to perception, not to immediate certainty, for which it was only the source of instances; for only perception contains negation, that is, difference or manifoldness, within its own essence. ."
"The position of Roman children as slaves is one of the institu."
"But not even is this contemplation itself directed to concepts; for the judgement of taste is not a cognitive judgement (neither a theoretical one nor a practical), and hence, also, is not grounded on concepts, nor yet intentionally directed to them."
"In short, the finder is supposed to be purely passive; and, in the case before us that is, the case of finding oneself something that one recognizes as oneself is supposed to impose itself on the finder."
"Rather, it is practical and would utterly destroy morality"
"Thus the representation of space cannot be obtained from the relations of outer appearance through experience, but this outer expe rience is itself first possible only through this representation."
"For the proper content of condition is essential content only in so far as it is the self identity of reflection in the form, or the ground connection is in it this immediate existence."
"For someone who enjoys the life of speculation the approval of an enlightened and competent judge is, given his modest wishes, a power ful encouragement to toils whose utility is great, but distant, and hence it is wholly misjudged by vulgar eyes."
"It is therefore a subjectively necessary, transcendental presupposition that this dismaying and limitless diversity of empirical laws and this heterogeneity of natural forms does not belong in nature, but that, instead, nature is fitted for experience as an empirical system through the affinity of particular laws under more general ones."
"Starting fr.om the Subje.ct as though this Were a permanent grouncl,.it finds that, since the Predicate is really the Substance, the Subject has passed over into the Predicate, and, by this very fact has beensuhlated; and, since in this way what seems to be the Predicate has become the whole and the independent mass, thinking cannot roam at will, hut is impeded by this weight."
"(see Smith, Say, and Ricardo)."
"Then, in the movement through the independence of consciousness in lordship and bondage, through the conception of freedom, through the liberation that comes from Scepticism and the struggle for absolute liberation by the consciousness divided againsthself, otherness, in so far as it is only for conscz'ousness, vanishes for consciousness itself."
"be of intuitively perceived necessity, and also in.this"
"But this particular person stands essen tially in relation Bezielltmg to other similar particulars, and their relation is such that each asserts itself and gains satisfaction through the others, and thus at the same time through the exclusive I. of the form of mediation universality, which is the second principle."
"Understood in this way, they may seem to be taken according to the way each refers to its other."
"aTranslator's tlote:"
"That the ground or reason must be sufficient is strictly speaking a totally superfluous addition, for it goes without saying; a thing without sufficient ground would have no ground, yet everything ought to have a ground."
"seront tous damnes ces derni pecheurs, qiont quelque amour pour la vertu."
"The same relation also obtains between the middle term and the other extreme; for this too likewise has the determination of immediacy, hence of a being which is contingent with respect to the middle term."
"However, it is strange that the author, despite entertaining the interesting view that it is precisely the so called applications that constitute the subject matter of differential calculus proper, would then himself divagate (ibid.)"
"I, which is what was there under consideration; and we were undoubtedly entitled to postulate that the I is necessarily an intellect, and indeed an intellect that intuits itself unconditionally."
"Substance is charged, as Subject, with the at first only inward necessity of setting forth within itselfwhat"
"(How unfriendly the jurists are in comparison with friendly nature!)"
"This stands in opposition to an otherworldly and intellectual realm whose content,"
"No critique of reason in empirical use was needed, since its principles were subjected to a continuous examination on the touchstone of experience; it was likewise unnecessary in mathematics, whose concepts must immediately be exhibited in concreto in pure intuition, through which anything unfounded and arbitrary instantly becomes obvious."
"The authority for this does indeed belong to me by virtue of the pure rather than empirical origin of the concept of cause, inasmuch as I consider myself authorized to make no other use of it than in reference to the moral law that determines its reality,.e."
"Suppose, then, that purposes must be given to us beforehand, in reference to which alone the concept of perfection (an internal perfection in ourselv or an external one in can become a determining basis of the will; and that a purpose as Attempt to Introduce a Mathematical Calculation in Subjects of Morality (London:."
"Conversely, an action can have several grounds; as something concrete, it contains a manifold of essential determinations, each of which can therefore be offered as the ground."
"Anyone who in our times labors at erecting anew an independent edifice of philosophical sciences may be reminded, thinking of how Plato expounded his, of the story that he reworked his Republic seven times over."
"That even these, its commonest functions, are not frustrated, but enjoy an actual existence, is due to the universal sustaining medium, to the might of the entire nation."
"Presupposed from the start is that the material of knowledge is present in and for itself as a ready made world outside thinking; that thinking is by itself empty, that it comes to this material as a form from outside, fills itself with it, and only then gains a content, thereby becoming real knowledge."
"the immediacy re.ceives its negative moment; Spirit remains the immediate Self of actuality, but as the universal self consciousness of the I religious community, a self consciousness which reposes in its own substance, just as in it this Substance is a universal Subject not the individual by himself, but together with the consciousness of the community and what he is for this community, is the complete whole of the individual as Spirit."
"Or rather, since the subject and predicate are in and for themselves the totality of the concept, and judgment is the reality of the concept, the judgment's forward movement is only development; what comes forth from it is already present in it, and to this extent the demonstration is a display, a reflection as the positing of that which is already at hand in the extreme terms of the judgment; but even this positing is already present; it is the connection of the extremes."
"It is rather externality posited as externality, a mere way and manner, hence the reflective shine as reflective shine, or the reflection of form into itself; hence, the self identity which is the absolute."
"I myself at least am such a natural whole."
"Also to be seen, therefore, is what is posited in them in their mutual reference itself."
"Even Cons iousness, in so far as it is the Understanding, is consciousness of the supersensible or the inner side of objective existence."
"Einzeb are mutually interdependent in innumer able respects, whereas independent states are primarily wholes which can satisfY their own needs internally."
"The Epicureans had, to be sure, assumed an entirely false principle of morals as the supreme one, namely that of happiness, and had substituted for a law a maxim of discretionary choi according to the inclination of each."
"I render this term as 'lawful' throughout the Critique, similarly for the noun."
"Freedom and the higher power of desire"
"If we investigate what is distinctive about differential calculus by the simple inventory of what there is in this part of mathematics, we find the following as the subject matter: (a) Equations in which any number of magnitudes (here we need simply confine ourselves to two) are combined into one determinate whole in such a way that, first, the equations themselves derive their determinateness from empirical magnitudes which are their fixed limits, and also from the kind of link which they have with these limits and with each other as is generally the case in an equation; but since there is only one equation for Cf."
"We may, for instance, ascribe to the soul, among other properties, a vis locomotiva because physical movements are actually initiated, the cause of which lies in the mind's activity of representing them."
"is absolutely disrupted."
"For since space is not a composite of substances (not even of real accidents), if I remove all composition from it, then nothing, not even a point, might be left over; for a point is possible only as the boundary of a space (hence of a composite)."
"The said intensity without extension ofrelations is an empty abstraction, for extension constitutes the outer existence of intension."
"If it is thought of as a simple essence or as Force, motion is no doubt gravity, but this does not contain these differences at all."
"his sphere of efficacy, decreases his physical power, and reduces his causality; if he has to regain these things that were taken from him, then the progress of his efficacious acting is, at a minimum, retarded, and he is forced to re do what he had done already."
"Freedom is directly opposed to the mechanism of nature and is in no way determined by the latter."
"Berlin, November Introduction general concept of logic"
"For such thinking does not stop at what is given, whether the latter is supported by the external positive authority of the state or of mutual agreement among human beings, or by the authority of inner feeling and the heart and by the testimony of the spirit which immediately concurs with this, but starts out from itself and thereby demands to know itself as united in its innermost being with the truth."
"On the contrary, it is possible to justifY any wrong or immoral mode of action by this means."
"We completely misunderstand this if we think that the supersensible world is therefore the sensuous world, or the world as it exists for immediate sense."
"But the advance is hindered the moment the method shows its hand by reversing itself, and looks for the derived in the consequent when in fact it is the derived that alone contains the grounds of the above presuppositions."
"However, the feeling of absolute power both in general, and in the particular form of service, is only implicitly this dissolution, and although the fear of the lord is indeed the begin."
"The purposiveness of nature is, therefore, a particular a priori concept, which has its origin solely in re<U+FB02>ective judgement."
"For one cannot derive synthetic a priori propositions from any such representation, as one can from intuition in space."
"Everything that happens is hypothetically necessary; that is a principle that subjects alteration in the world to a law,.e."
"For if the will obeys no other principles than those in accordance with which, as merely natural laws, the understanding grasps the possibility of the object, and the proposition implying the possibility of something as an effect of the causality of voluntary action can be described as a 'practical' '"
"For absolute necessity is an existence from mere concepts."
"Plato could well have refrained from recommending nurses never to stand still with children but to keep rocking them in their arms; and Fichte likewise need not have perfected his passport regulations to the point of 'constructing', as the expression ran, the requirement that the pass ports of suspect persons should carry not only their personal description but also their painted likenessP"
"When one speaks of the reality of the concept of morality, then this cannot at least not to begin with mean that something is immediately realized in the world of appearances simply by thinking this concept The object of this concept,.e."
"(which is what we will discuss next)."
"Thus in this proposition there is already no longer merely spontaneity of thinking, but also receptivity of intuition,.e., the thinking of my self applied to the empirical intuition of the very same subject."
"Everyone has sufficient courage in the face of someone of whose weakness he is already firmly convinced; but if one lacks such conviction, if one encounters someone whom one suspects to possess greater strength of whatever kind one imagines than one possesses oneself, then one is terrified to apply the force that might be needed in order to maintain one's self sufficiency and therefore yields."
"But however that may be (for the investigation of this still lies before us), this much at least is clear; cognition from principles (in themselves) is something entirely different from mere cognition of the understand ing, which can of course precede other cognitions in the form of a prin ciple, but in itself (insofar at it is synthetic) still neither rests on mere thought nor contains in itself a universal according to concepts."
"The reviewer was Hermann Andreas Pistorius."
"This apprehension of the difference as it is in truth, or the apprehension of infinity as such, is for us, or in itself ie is merely implicit."
"The relationship of parents and children and the reciprocal duties arising therefrom"
"This contradiction is present in the very fact that the infinite remains over against the finite, with the result that there are two determinacies."
"Thus the existence of a real object outside me (if this last word is taken in an in tellectual signification) is never given directly in perception, but can only be added in thought to what is a modification of inner sense as its external cause, and hence can only be inferred."
"It can be nothing less than what elevates the human being above himself (as a part of the world of sense), what links him to an order of things that only the understanding can think and that at the same time has under it the entire world of sense and with it the human being's empirically determinable existence in time and the whole of all purpos (which whole is alone appropriate to such unconditional practical laws as the moral law)."
"English trans., pp. ."
"Our philosophy therefore begins with an item of faith, and it knows that it does this."
"The 'heart of the matter' thus expresses the spiritual essentiality in which all these moments have lost all validity of their own, and are valid therefore only as universal, and in which the certainty consciousness has of itself is an objective entity, an objective fact for it, an object born of self consciousness as its own, without ceasing to be a free object in the proper sense."
"as the objective extreme; in other words, it has successfully struggled to divest itself of its being for self and has turned it into mere being."
"That the world has a beginning, that my thinking self is of a simple and therefore incorruptible nature, that this self is likewise free and elevated above natural compulsion in its voluntary actions, and finally, that the whole order of things constituting the world descends from an original being, from which it borrows all its unity and purposive connect edness"
"I as it were draw its shape in agreement with this synthetic unity of the manifold in space."
"The one one of attraction Repulsion is the fragmentation of the one, first into the many of which it is the negative relating, since they presuppose each other as each existent; it is only the ought of ideality; this ideality will, however, be realized in attraction."
"Since my will as personal and hence as the will of an individual des"
"It is a knowledge to which every educated person may aspire."
"In the quantitatively measured scale of musical relations, a quant gives rise to a relation of harmony in the progression of notes without that quantum having on the scale any other relation to the preceding and the succeeding ones than these have in turn to those preceding and following them."
"It is inherent in arbitrariness that the content is not determined as mine by the nature of my will, but by contingency; thus I am also dependent on this content, and this is the contradiction which underlies."
"And yet, according to the preceding principles, it is a duty of conscience for the teacher of the people and for the state official, as they go about their business, to separate these two roles precisely:"
"But The human mind takes (as I believe is necessarily the case with every rational being) a natural interest in morality, even though this is not undivided and practically overwhelming."
"Inclination, whether it be good natur or not, is blind and servile; and reason, where morality is at issue, must not merely represent the guardian of inclination but must, without taking account of inclination and as pure practical reason, attend all by itself to its own interest."
"Theft, cowardice, murder, etc., as actions ie as products in general of a subjective will have the immediate determination of being the satisfoction of such a will, and hence of being something positive; and in order to make the action into a good one, it is merely a question of knowing this positive aspect as my ltention in performing the action, and this aspect is then the essential factor in determining the action as good, because I know it as the good in my intention."
"and but their quantitative determinateness remains, although in qualitative existence namely, as the determinateness which they have in relation."
"This simple infinity, or the absolute Notion, may be called the simple essence of life, the soul of the world, the universal blood, whose omnipresence is neither disturbed nor inter."
"Therefore the law to further the happiness of others arises not from the presupposition that this is an object for everyone's power of choice, but merely from the fact that the form of universality, which reason requires as condition for giving to a maxim of self love the objective validity of a law, becomes the determining basis of the will."
"But in so far as the state as such and its independence are at risk, duty requires all citizens to rally to its defence."
"In the instances adduced against our proposition, something appears as not indifferent to whether it is or is not, not on account of being or non being, but because of its content which connects it with some other content."
"Naturally, this is a case for my maxim."
"The determinations of this substance are only attributes which do not attain to self subsistence, but remain merely names of the many named One."
"It is also that of morality."
"It is pure relating of selfto self, or the medium in ,which all these determinacies are, and in which as a simple unity they therefore interpenetrate, but without coming into contact withone another; for it is precisely through participating in this universality that they exist indifferently on their own account."
"In this alternation, each immediately stands out on its own."
"It is only of man under moral laws that we are able to affirm, without transcending the limits of our insight, that beings, the existence of such a world would have no worth"
"But in so doing we do not convert nature into an intelligent being, for that would be absurd; but neither do we dare to think of placing another being, one that is intelligent, above nature as its architect, for that would be presumptuous."
"The being of Spirit cannot in any case be taken as something fixed and immovable."
"Those goods, or rather substantial determinations, which constitute my own distinct personality and the universal essence of my self consciousness are therefore<U+FFFD>, and my right to them<U+FFFD>!f!"
"But, brought so far, this concept necessarily leads us to the idea of aggregate nature as a system following the rule of ends, to which idea, again, the whole mechanism of nature has to be subordinated on principles of reason at least for the purpose of testing phenomenal nature by this idea."
"Such a notion is not a matter of opinion at all, but an idea pure and simple."
"But since this is not a power for the representation of things, but lies outside the cognitive power altogether, the elements of our judgments, insofar as they are related to pleasure or displeasure, thus belong to practical philosophy, and not to the sum total of transcendental philosophy, which has to do solely with pure a priori cognitions."
"the basis of this connection, namely the basis of the exact harmony of one's happiness with one's morality, is also postulated."
"By forcibly resisting, I myself have transformed a struggle over mere property into one for life and limb."
"Such relations, their discovery and elaboration, do not seem, it is true, to be anything immanent in analytical cognition, but seem rather something accidental and given; moreover, these same relations and the operations connected with them are also routinely conducted one after the other, as diverse, with no notice of any internal connectedness."
"Geometry as such does not measure"
"Anyone desiring a proof of this assertion will find a detailed proof of it in Chapter Two, below."
"which would execute judgement in an unreasoning, arbitrary manner; by misunderstanding the context of the action, and.y unconscious acts of omission and commission."
"For what we have to do with here is a nat ural and unavoidable illusion a which itself rests on subjective princi ples and passes them off as objective, whereas logical dialectic in its dissolution of fallacious inferences has to do only with an error in fol lowing principles or with an artificial illusion that imitates them.s"
"One calls such cognitions a priori, and distinguishes them from empirical ones, which have their sources experience."
"With this, of course, the form of an increment with a plus or minus naturally comes into play again, and Lagrange's vigorous 'developpons' can be heard again; but we have already pointed out how the increments have here only arithmetical, finite meaning."
"Experience may well teach us what is, but not that it could not be otherwise."
"The empty abstraction .of"
"('the moon is inhabited') is the conclusion; but the one premise ('the earth is inhabited') is likewise P; in so far as is supposed to be a conclusion, it entails the requirement that that premise also be."
", and even the abstract forms of'thesame' and 'not the.same', of 'identity' and 'non .identity' were reduced to moments."
"Shine, the 'phenomenon' of skepticism, and also the 'appearance' of idealism, is thus this immediacy which is not a something nor a Shine thing in general, not an indifferent being that would exist apart from its determinateness and connection with the subject."
"What was supposed to be proven has therefore now been proven as such, though it has by no means been completely analyzed as yet."
"The result was that upon this soil, generally so unfavourable for cultivation of any kind, extensive pine forests were able to spring up forests which we frequently blame our ancestors for having wantonly destroyed."
"To complete the concept we are here explicating: is nature in general and organic nature, so the universal law of the latter must therefore apply here as well."
"This proposition is therefore the perfect, real definition of the triangle of the right angled triangle in the first place, the simplest in its differences and hence the most regular."
"We have no reason for assuming the form of such a thing to be still partly dependent on blind mechanism, for with such confusion of heterogeneous principles every reliable rule for judging things would disappear."
"The content of the derived thought would therefore amount to this: that the intellect has to give itself the unbreakable law of absolute self activity."
"By this the artist, having practised and corrected his taste by a variety of examples from nature or art, guides his work and, after many, and often laborious, attempts to satisfy taste, finds the form which commends itself to him."
"But it thereby falls into obscurity and contradictions, from which it can indeed surmise that it must some where be proceeding on the ground of hidden errors; but it cannot dis cover them, for the principles on which it is proceeding, since they surpass the bounds of all experience, no longer recognize any touch stone of experience."
"This content is only one of the various aspects of a concrete action, some of which may even justifY its des cription as criminal and bad."
"If EvH is the same as Goodness, then Evil is just not Evil, nor Goodness Good:"
"Voltaire said that heaven has given us two things to compensate us for the many miseries of life, hope and sleep."
"an axiom determining objects in themselves a priori"
"Unless the feeling of subordination, which creates a longing to grow up, is nurtured in the children, they become forward and impertinent."
"In this therefore consists the transcendental ideality of time, according to which it is nothing at all if one ab stracts from the subjective conditions of sensible intuition, and cannot be counted as either subsisting or inhering in the objects in themselves (without their relation to our intuition)."
"Thus it treats every organized being produced from one of its own kind either as its educt or as its product."
"But under the circumstances mentioned this accord must be very contingent and must exist without any determinate principle to guide our judgement."
"equally well what geometry does by an ostensive or geo metrical construction (of the objects themselves)"
"The I think is, as has already been said, an empirical proposition, and contains within itself the proposition I exist."
"Everyone becomes God, to the extent that one is permitted to do so"
"The c@ntentofthe ethical action must be sub."
"Precisely because of this, moreover, empiricism along with all inclinations which (no matter what style they are given) degrade humanity if they are elevated to the dignity of a supreme Cf."
"As thus separated, they are just as much essentially connected with each other, through the very negation that divides them."
"For this security cannot be achieved by the sacrifice of what is supposed to be secured on the contrary."
"For in lawless freedom imagination, with all its wealth, produces nothing but nonsense; the power of judgement, on the other hand, is the faculty that makes it consonant with understanding."
"Now the proper unchangeable fundamental measure of nature is its absolute whole, which, with it, regarded as a phenomenon, means infinity comprehended."
"Thus it is actuality."
"For what could compel our own will?"
"Or again, it is external reflection which insists that specific determinations, whether in themselves or in the absolute, are one and the same that their difference is only an indifferent one, not a difference in itself."
"the will itself is the idea which is present within itself."
"In this second syllogism, the premises are: and U; only the first of these premises is still an immediate one; the second, is already mediated, namely through the first syllogism; the second syllogism thus presupposes the first just as, conversely, the first presupposes the second."
"Ground, on the contrary, is mediation that is real, since it contains reflection as sublated reflection; it is essence that turns back into itself through its non being and posits itself."
"I consequently do not mean that kin of al<U+FFFD>"
"Or again, rain is the cause of wetness, which is the same water as the rain."
"It might perhaps seem that, in order to state the concept of a subject matter, the logical element can be presupposed, and that this element would not therefore be preceded by anything else, or be something deduced, just as in geometry logical propositions, when they occur applied to magnitudes and employed in that science, are premised in the form of axioms, underived and underivable determinations of cognition."
"I has the value of the Absolute, for se faconsciousness cannot and does not want any more to go beyond this object, for in it, it is in communion with itself: it cannot, for it is all being and all power; it does not want to, for it is the self or the wi I of this self."
"But even where the given premisses from which we start are empirical, as are the natural ends in the present case, yet they cannot help us to form any opinion that extends beyond the sensible world, and to such rash judgements we cannot accord the least claim to probability."
"In so far as it has the concept immanent in it, the difference of the concept is present in it; but on account of the objective totality, the differentiated moments are complete and self subsistent objects that, consequently, even in connection relate to one another as each standing on its own, each maintaining itself in every combination as external."
"In the former case, the question received the following answer:"
"Kant uses the term Verhiiltnis throughout the Transcendental Aesthetic to denote the relation among several things occupying different positions in space or time, reserving the word Beziehung to denote the relation between objects and the cognitive subject (in which sense it is used only four times, to be noted below, in the final section of the Transcendental Aesthetic."
"But then if the effects are appearances, is it also necessary that the causality of their cause, which (namely, the cause) is also appearance, must be solely empirical?"
"The other extreme may be the immediate genus, as it is in the middle term of the preceding syllogism, or in the subject of the universal judgment, and which is exhausted in the collection of singulars or also species of the middle term."
"It contains the following basic thoughts: because God includes within itself all eternal truths, the Cf."
"ethics, and the interest of the state each of these is a distinct variety of right, because each of them gives determi nate shape and existence to freedom."
"The only question is: what kind of feeling might this be, and what distinguishes it from other feelings?"
"Only one aspeet of the will is defined here namely this absolute,<U+FFFD>"
"of the servile sdousness acquires an existence; it also has, in contrast with its first moment, the negative significance offear."
"but the two preceding movements of self consciousness."
"Yet at the same time this its essence is only an abstract essence."
"For the effect which the hitherto passive substance sublates within itself is precisely the effect of that other cause."
"Those who reject his kind of teaching and simultaneously the proce dure of the critique of pure reason can have nothing else in mind except to throw off the fetters of science altogether, and to transform work into play, certainty into opinion, and philosophy into philodoxy."
"The two are therefore one: the expression of the force by virtue of which the latter, through its negative activity which is directed at itself, imparts a determinate being for other to itself; and the infinite turning in this externality back to itself, so that there it only refers to itself."
"The death of the divine Man, as death, is abstract negativity, the immediate result of the movement which ends only in natural universality, Death loses this natural meaning in spiritual self consciousness, ie it comes to be its just stated Notion"
"These elementary Beings arc, as universal moments, not a self and are notequal."
"What, therefore, it places before them it also 'displaces' again, or rather has straightway 'displaced' or dissembled."
"Such an object, in which the process is present in the simplicity ofthe Notion, is the organism."
"The movement just considered is the one in which the absolute ground has exhibited its moments at once as self sublating and consequently as posited."
"If they are related, for instance, as root and square, it is indifferent which is regarded as increasing or decreasing in merely external arithmetical progression, and which on the contrary has its specific determination in this quantum."
"Chemical bodies form a system of relations with respect to saturation; the saturation itself rests on the determinate proportion in which the two reciprocal amounts bind together, each with a particular material concrete existence as against the other."
"In that case, for the reason just indicated, it would have to reverse this law in turn, and we would thereby obtain a composite law of reflection, a reciprocal interaction of reflection with itself."
"The solicitation of force Force is conditioned because the moment of immediate concrete existence which it contains is something only posited, but, because it is at the same time an immediate, is posited as something presupposed in which the force negates itself."
"Both representations contain inwardness and outer existcpce the two moments of Spirit; and both representations contain the two moments at once in an antithetical relation, the selfboth as inner and as outer."
"Let us take a closer look at what makes such a truth tedious."
"Thises, Heres, Nows, all single items."
"Kant ends this and the next sentence with periods, for which we have substituted question marks."
"If any mistake is made in this latter point this only touches the incorrect application to a particular case of the right which a law gives us, and does not do away with the right generally."
"Gedankending Spielwerke"
"Or, an action which in the world of appearance is a crime would, in the inner world, he capable of being really good a bad action may be well intentioned)"
"Given a multiplicity of the homogeneous together constituting one thing, and we may at once cognize from the thing itself that it is a magnitude (quantum)."
"is only relative, ie still subjective, for the object from which the return is made remains an empty externality which is indicated only at a distance."
"the single shapes qfSpirit do not persist any more than determi."
"This no less synthetic than analytic moment of the judgment through which the initial universal determines itself from within itself as"
"This abstract universal medium, which can be called simply 'thinghood) or 'pure essence', is nothing else than what Here and Now have proved themselvess to be, viz."
"The alleged justification of slavery vith all its more specific explanations in terms of physical force, capture in time of war, the saving and preservation of life, sustenance, education Ziehung acts of benevolence, the slave's own acquiescence, etc.), as well as the justification of the master's status as simple lordship in general, and all historical views on the right of slavery and lordship, depend on regarding the human being simply as a natural being Naturwesen"
"It must have seemed strange that, in the preceding section, we derived, simply from the I's reflection upon a tendency Tendenz a type of consciousness that does not carry with it anything resembling a tendency and that the distinctive character of this previously established tendency thus seems to have been set aside entirely."
"(Consider, for example, the drives of sympathy, pity, and philanthropic love: we will see in due course that these drives are manifestations of the ethical drive, though they are mixed with the natural drive just as the ethical drive is always mixed with another drive."
"It is therefore to deny him the honour due to his concept if his good side and hence also the determination of his evil action as evil is divorced from him and he is not made responsible for his evil action either."
"io<U+FFFD>is negative freedom arises."
"It is in the form of thing hood, ie it is independent; but it is certain that this independent object is for it not something alien, and thus it knows that it is in principle recognized by the object."
"but the objective will, inasmuch as it lacks the in nite form of self consciousness, is the willr.immerse in its ob' ect or condition, whatever the content <U+FFFD>"
"knowing absolute Spirit its shape' has the determination which belongs to immediate consciousness or to sense certainty."
"But where all that is intended is the maintenance of a free play of the powers of representation (subject, however, to the condition that there is to be nothing for understanding to take exception to), in ornamental gardens, in the decoration of rooms, in all kinds of tasteful implements etc.,"
"Just what might be involved in these determinations is of no further concern to us here."
"A person who says the opposite of what was asserted above may well find in his own heart some reason for doing this the error can lie only in his heart, not in his understanding"
"It is here that the content of cognition first enters as such into the circle of consideration, because as deduced it now belongs to the method."
"But since, for all that, a product can never be called art unless there is a preceding rule, it follows that nature in the individual (and by virtue of the harmony of his faculties) must give the rule to art, ie fine art is only possible as a product of genius."
"Thus, just as surely as we act upon them at all, we are required to regard other humans as moral beings, and how we act in relation to them is determined solely by our regard for them as moral beings."
"Thus if someone denies that he has any personal consciousness of the moral law, as a fact of his inner experience of himself, he may find himself to be completely in the right in a dispute with a defender of this fact of the moral law who does not sufficiently understand himself"
", the principle of per sistence is one that anticipates experience just as much as that of causality."
"Since the two terms are utterly self subsistent, they can be united only in a third, and so on to infinity."
"As this syllogism determines the extremes of the concept also as totalities, it has attained the correspondence of its concept (or the middle term) and its existence (or the difference of the extremes)."
"it is only exhaustively exhibited by alternately exposing its moments and retaining them for itself."
"This self positing in a one of the many ones is attraction."
"Thus if one asks (in respect of a transcendental theology) first whether there is anything different from the world which contains the ground of the world order and its connection according to universal laws, then the answer is: Without a doubt."
"Re<U+FB02>ective judgement has, therefore, its maxims applicable to such cases maxims that are in fact necessary for obtaining a knowledge of the natural laws to be found in experience, and which are directed to assist us in arriving at concepts, be these even concepts of reason, wherever such concepts are absolutely required for the mere purpose of coming to know nature in its empirical laws."
"This peculiar tinge of Spirit is to be looked on as the sole content of the End itself and as the sole reality."
"I follow Hring's edition"
"Essence is only this negativity which is pure reflection."
"But they themselves are now this negative reference to themselves as to existent others: the demonstrated contradiction, the infinity posited in the immediacy of being."
"To ask what something consists of is to require the production of something else, the compounding of which constitutes that something."
"If singularity is listed as one of the particular determinations of the concept, then particularity is the totality which embraces them all"
"What occurs in the I beginning at the point it becomes an I and assuming that it actually remains an"
"I can, however, never grasp infinity; hence I always have before my eyes some determinate goal, to which I can undoubtedly draw nearer, even though, after I have achieved this determinate goal, my goal might well be extended that much farther as a result of the perfecting of my whole being, as well as of my insight, which I have achieved through this process."
"To say, therefore, that things may be possible without being actual, that from mere possibility, therefore, no conclusion whatever as to actuality can be drawn, is to state propositions that hold true for human reason, without such validity proving that this distinction lies in the things themselves."
"(Entities are not to be multiplied without ne cessity)."
"In the above example the proposition There is a perfect justice is not said assertorically, but is only thought of as an arbitrary judgment that it is possible that someone might assume, and only the implication is assertoric."
"But now, because their quantitativene is simply and solely of this qualitative nature, each reaches only as far as the other."
"The Science of Subjective Logic or The Doctrine of the Concept itself, a positing which is at the same time the sublating of its presupposed otherness, of passive substance."
"Third, this side also has the merit of popularity, which certainly constitutes no small part of what recommends it."
"Kant's reply to that review is contained in the Appendix Anhang) to the Prolegomena, Ak. Erfahrungs."
"This void is their limit, but an external limit in which they are not supposed to be for one another."
"sequently, reality directly comes to be for it"
"The principles of pure understanding we presented above should be only of empirical and not of transcendental use,.e., of a use that reaches out beyond the boundaries of experi ence."
"Thus all that those theorems in fact do is to reduce the sensuous triangle, which of course requires three sides and three angles, to its simplest conditions."
", it forms or shapes itself simply for the sake of doing so, and it forms or shapes in the way it does simply for the sake of doing so."
"(::h necessitydoes notarise from the notion of the theorem; it israJherimposed, and the instruction to draw precisely these line$ when infinit ly many others could be drawn must be bli obeyed without our knowing anything yQnd except that we believe that this will he to the purpose in(; rryil)g out the proof."
"When therefore one asks for a content of the exposition, for what the absolute manifests, the reply is that the distinction of form and content in the absolute has been dissolved; or that just this is the content of the absolute, that it manifests itself."
"An animal can intuit, but the soul of the animal does not have the soul, or itself, as its object Ge stalltI but something external."
"Second, it is properly only the unconditioned that reason seeks in this synthesis of conditions, which proceeds serially, and indeed regressively, hence as it were the completeness in the series of premises that together presuppose no further premise."
"The first way of looking at the world is the ordinary way; the second is the aesthetic way."
"Once the teleological judging of nature, supported by the natural ends actually presented to us in organic beings, has entitled us to form the idea of a great system of the ends of nature, we may regard even natural beauty from this point of view, such beauty being an accordance of nature with the free play of our cognitive faculties as engaged in grasping and judging its appearance."
"Since this lan guage is that of a distracted mind, and the pronouncement only some twaddle uttereclon the spur of the moment, which is again quickly forgotten, and exists as a whole only for a third con sciouandness, this latter can only be distinguished as pure insight if it brings these scattered traits into a general picture and then makes them into an insight for everyone."
"The former passes over in to the sceptical confusion ofcons do usness into a negative rambling which, lacking any stable form, strays fortuitously from one form of being and thought to another, dissolving them, it is true, in its absolute independence butno less recreating them; itis, in fact, merely the contradiction of a consciousness which is at once indepen."
"But this name is important: it is the ultimate instance and nOll plus ultra."
", he need not have waited for the experience of it actually collapsing."
"The Unchangeable that enters into consciousness is through this very fact at the same time affected by individuality, and is only present with the latter; individuality, instead of.having been extinguished in the consciousness of the Unchangeable, only continues to arise therefrom."
"According to this moment of sublated reflection, what is posited receives the determination of immediacy, of an immediate which is self identical outside its reference or its reflective shining."
"The unity of reason is the unity of a sys tem, and this systematic unity does not serve reason objectively as a principle, extending it over objects, but subjectively as a maxim, in order to extend it over all possible empirical cognition of objects."
"But just as profundity of this kind still does not reveal the source of essential being, so, too, these sky rockets of inspiration are not yet the empyrean."
"In point of fact, it is only when thus determined that the difference is inner difference, or the difference in its own self, thelike being unlike itself, and the unlike, like itself."
"Meanwhile, the monadists are subtle enough to try to escape from this difficulty by not presupposing space as a condition of the possibility of objects of outer intuition (bodies), but rather presupposing these objects and the dynamical relation of substances in general as the condition of the possibility of space."
"Transgression of the law would indeed be avoided; what is commanded would be done."
"Or it is the same as the substance of the causal relation, but a substance which is confronted by the power of accidentality as itself substantial activity."
"Now we have before us the entire dialectical play of the cosmological ideas, which do not permit an object congruent to them to be given in any possible experience, which, indeed, do not even permit reason to think them in agreement with the universal laws of experience, but which have not been thought up arbitrarily; reason, rather,"
"Here I am not following exactly the thread of the history of the experimental method, whose first beginnings are also not precisely known."
"The study of nature, because of the stable reality of its objects, is inevitably led to fix categories that can no longer be ignored in it, even if with complete disregard for consistency towards other categories which are also allowed to stand; it is not given room for abstracting from opposition and moving on to generalities, as so easily happens when spirit is the object."
"But as it has come before us thus far, it/has to be a particular shape of consciousness like all the other moments."
"syllogistic conclusion."
"To be convinced of propositions that infringe upon our passions presupposes thedominion of a good will, which can therefore not in turn be produced by conviction.)"
"Regarded as forces, they are treated as self standing and therefore not as referring to each other by nature, that is, not as each only a moment that should pass over into its opposite but as each persisting instead in opposition to the other."
"The idea of a moral world thus has objective reality, not as if it pertained to an object of an intelligible intuition (for we cannot even think of such a thing), but as pertaining to the sensible world, although as an object of pure reason in its practi cal use and a corpus mysticum of the rational beings in it, insofar as their free choice under moral laws has thoroughgoing systematic unity in it self as well as with the freedom of everyone else."
"These maxims crop up frequently enough in the course of this science, though only in a scattered way."
"The rights of birth and inheritance constitute the basis Grund of legitimacy, ie the basis not just of a purely positive right but also of a right contained in the Idea."
"The determination of finite things does not go past their end."
"In the same way, the meallS employed by particularized needs, and in general the ways in which these are satisfied, are divided and multiplied so that they in tum become relative ends and abstract needs."
"Atthe same titne, it does not recognize the contradiction it falls into in not letting the rejection whichhas taken place in words, be validated as a genuine rejection, while itself has the certainty of its Spirit, notin an actual deed, but in its inner being, and finds the ouler existence of this inner being in the utterance of its dgement."
"The end here is inescapably fixed, and according to all my insight there is possible only a single condition under which this end is consistent with all ends together and thereby has practical va lidity, namely, that there be a God and a future world; I also know with complete certainty that no one else knows of any other conditions that lead to this same unity of ends under the moral law."
"The first thing that would have to be expressly appointed in a system ordered with a view to a purposive whole of natural beings upon the earth would be their habitat the soil or the element upon or in which they are intended to thrive."
"What comes first are determinate points of individuality, and from then on an infinity lies ahead of each of these points and of all the individuals who are possible from this point on,"
"that none at all, not even the probitas laudator Satires, I,."
"for which 'immediately' because he sees that the proportion between well being and well behaving, which reason unavoidably holds before him, has here been carried out exactly."
"Now it may be asked if this primordial deposit of sand tracts was not an end that nature had in view for the benefit of the possible pine forests that might grow on them."
"Yet this is only a subtlety."
"But this kind of external and fixed subject of imagination and understanding, and also these abstract determinations, cannot be regarded as ultimates, as secure and permanent substrates."
"This paragraph does not appear in the edition."
"This interest, indirectly attached to the beautiful by the inclination towards society, and, consequently, empirical, is, however, of no importance for us here."
"Accordingly, the antinomy of pure reason in its cosmological ideas is removed by showing that it is merely dialectical and a conflict due to an illusion arising from the fact that one has applied the idea of absolute totality, which is valid only as a condition of things in themselves, to appearances that exist only in representation, and that, if they constitute a series, exist in the successive regress but otherwise do not exist at all."
"This object us now be defined more precisely, and the definition must be developed briefly from the result that has been reached; the more detailed development does not belong here."
"Accordingly, essence is as ground a positedness, something that has become."
"But this objective negative moment is none other than the alien being before which it has trembled."
"Any means whereby we believe we can transcendfinite ends is a vain and empty fancy. ."
"We now wish to consider briefly the how or the form of free action."
", the course of the planets is given to us as circular through a (still not fully corrected) experience, and we find variations, then we suppose these variations to consist in an orbit that can deviate from the circle through each of an infinity of intermediate degrees according to con stant laws;.e."
"The determination of form is also content determination; cause and effect, the two sides of the relation, are therefore also another content."
"Hence transcendental philosophy is a philos ophyt of pure, merely speculative reason."
"Thus we are not allowed to think up any sort of new original forces,.g., an understanding that is capable of intuiting its object without sense or an attractive force with out any contact, or a new kind of substance,.g."
"Nature formally regarded, .e., nature considered with regard to its form rather than its matter."
"One cannot properly say that this idea is the concept of an object,"
"The difficulty confronting an intellect intent on this kind of explanation lies in the qualitative transition from a something into its other in general and into its opposite a difficulty which the intellect meets by pretending that identity and alteration are the indifferent external identity and alteration of the quantitative sphere."
"Since we started from the first immediate unity and returned through the moments of formation and of process to the unity of both these moments, and thus hack again to the original simple substance)"
"The moral level on which the human being stands (as does, according to all the insight we have, every rational creature as well) is respect for the moral law."
"Air, water, earth, zones, and climate are universal elements of this sort, which constitute the indeterminate simple essence of natural individualities, and in which these are at the same time reflected into themselves."
"And in this way we regain, within the realm of actuality, a rational being, in the same form in which we originally set forth the concept of such a being: as absolutely self sufficient."
"In precisely the same way, experience must also ideally form a system of possible empirical knowledge in accordance with universal as well as particular laws, in so far as this is objectively possible at least in principle."
"the state does not concern itself with convincing anyone; whether one does or does not recognize the correctness and justice of its decision, one still has to subject oneself to it, and it is enforced with physical power."
"This union of opposite determination in an existent substrate constitutes the infinite regress from cause to cause."
"Since the object is thus determinate yet indifferent to its determinateness, through itself it points for its determinateness outside and beyond itself, constantly to objects for which it is however likewise a matter of indifference that they do the determining."
"But now we have in inner intuition"
"Obviously, in this mode the maxim as such a law would comp everyone to be truthful."
"This absolute identity of the subject and the object in the"
"Only by firmly attending to this shall we comprehend the objective turning back of the concept into itself, that is, its true objectification; only then shall we see that every one of the single moments through which this mediation runs its course is itself the whole syllogism of the mediation."
"But if it were the maxim's determining basis, then one would have to presuppose that we find not only a natural gratification in the well bei of others but also a need, such as the sympathetic mentali brings with it in human beings"
"a sour thing; black, which would be the in itself of white, is an actual black; the north pole which is the in itself of the south pole is the north pole actually present in the same magnet; the oxygen pole which is the in itself of the hydrogen pole is actually present in the same voltaic pile."
"Literally, 'wants will."
"Being as entirely abstract, immediate self reference, is nothing but the abstract moment of the concept; it is its moment of abstract universality that also provides what is required of being, namely that it be outside the concept, for inasmuch as universality is a moment of the concept, it is also its difference or the abstract judgment wherein the concept opposes itself to itself."
"Assume,' so begins the proof, 'that composite substances do not consist of simple parts; then, if all composition is removed in thought, no composite part remains and, since on the assumption just made there are no simple parts, there is also no simple part, thus nothing at all; consequently no substance would be given.'."
"By pressing on with the series the amount might well be made as precise as need be; nevertheless, what is displayed through the series always remains an ought; the series is always affected by a beyond which cannot be sublated, for the attempt to express as an amount something which is based on a qualitative determinateness is an abiding contradiction."
",self, sDmethingtD he sacrificed for others."
"These disadvantageous consequences come to view even more clearly in the case of the dogmatism of our idea of a highest intelligence and the theological system of nature (physicotheology)"
"without itself having the least knowledge of its own being."
"A violet colour is to one soft and lovely, but to another dull and faded."
"but Faith, so far as this is aflightfrom the real world and thus is not in and for itself."
"Now this concept cannot contain any determinate in tuition at all, and therefore concerns nothing but that unity which must be encountered in a manifold of cognition insofar as it stands in relation to an object."
"This negativity, therefore, attaches indeed to the abstract universal, but it remains outside it, as a mere condition of it; it is the abstraction itself that holds its universal opposite it, and so the universal does not have singularity in itself and remains void of concept Life, spirit, God, as well as the pure concept, are for this reason beyond the grasp of abstraction, for abstraction keeps singularity away from its products, and singularity is the principle of individuality and personality."
"Thus there exist for consciousness three different ways in which individuality is linked with the Unchangeable."
"But this determinateness is itself absolute negativity and this determining, which as determining immediately sublates itself, is a turning back into itself."
"if, that is, our judgement takes the form of our simply picturing to ourselves the case of our wishing to offer some resistance to it, and recognizing that all such resistance would be quite futile."
"He who brings with him nothing but dogmatic weapons to resist the attacks of his opponent, and who does not know how to develop the hidden dialectic which lies no less in his own breast than in that of his counterpart, sees illusory grounds that have the advantage of novelty step forth against illusory grounds that no longer have that advantage but which instead arouse the suspicion of having abused the credulity of the young."
"This natural drive is to be ascribed to the genuinely substantial I, not to the intellect as such; and we have just seen the reason for this."
"But this is a place where the edition varies considerably from that of."
"I will throw more light on the first of these propositions presently."
"Also those elenchi are, therefore, not anything frivolous or pedantic but basically correct: they attest to a mind which has an interest in the phenomena that come with thinking."
"equally it is the spiritual whole issuing forth between them, which sunders itselfintothem and only by means of this contact"
"The usual horror which ordinary (not speculative) thought has of contradiction (as nature has of the vacuum) rejects this consequence, for it remains at the one sided consideration that contradiction resolves into nothing without recognizing its positive side where it becomes absolute activity and absolute ground."
"consequently, though not themselves derived from imitation, they must serve that purpose for others, ie as a standard or rule of judging."
"These properties, at least the first two, seem indeed to refer not to the organism in general, but only to the animai organism."
"Hotho, on whose notes this Addition is based, cites this word in the French form confortable, and makes no reference to the English Il,."
"An ethical theology is therefore quite possible."
"It is remarkable enough, although it could not naturally have been otherwise, that in the infancy of philosophy"
"For only because I ascribe all perceptions to one consciousness (of original apperception) can I say of all perceptions that I am conscious of them."
"For in accordance with the laws of sensibility and the context of our perceptions we could also happen upon the immediate empirical intuition of it in an experience if our senses, the crudeness of which does not affect the form of possible experience in general, were finer."
"Thus the tenth, the hundredth, is this simple, intensive magnitude that has its determinateness in the more or less than a hundredth lying outside it, that is, in the extensive magnitude."
"The idea of the fulfilled good is indeed an absolute postulate, but no more than a postulate, that is, the absolute encumbered with the determinateness of subjectivity."
"Now since as far as I know all those psychologists who cling to em pirical idealism are transcendental realists, they have obviously pro ceeded very consistently in conceding great importance to empirical idealism as one of the problems from which human reason knows how to extricate itself only with difficulty."
"The aim here is to attain certainty, not truth in the higher sense, which is invariably eternal in character."
"Freedom enters the picture only afterward, and along with freedom there appears a command of duty."
"and denotes that mere!"
"oCper sonality, since any living thing whatever is a sUbject."
"All material moral systems (i.e., all those that still seek some end for duty beyond duty itself) do go beyond conscience and are caught up in the fundamental error of all dogmatism, which searches outside the I in order to discover the ultimate ground of all that is in and for the I. Moral systems of this sort are possible only in consequence of an inconsistency, since for a consistent dogmatism there are no morals Moral but only a system of natural laws."
"Thus what we have to provide here is a deduction of the moral nature of the human being or of the ethical principle therein."
"and if something is to be good or evil absolute (and in every respect and without any further condition), or to be considered so, then what could be so called would be only the way of acting, the maxim of the will, and hence the acting person himself as a good or evil human being, but not a thing."
"In actual fact, therefore, the absolute is first posited as absolute identity only in the mode; it is what it is, namely self identity, only as self referring negativity, as reflective shining which is posited as reflective shining."
"The parties have a right to go through these lengthy formalities, which are into an evil Uben their right."
"Appearance otherness, is equally the surpassing of itself into its infinity; opposed to the world of appearance there stands the world that exists in itself reflected into itself."
"Is man in possession of reason, or reason in possession of man?,'."
"(see Klein's Ele ments ofPenal Law Grzmdsatze des peinliclzen Rec/lts fV"
"Hence the progress towards this goal is also unhalting, and short of it no satisfaction is to be found at any of the stations on the way."
"a. Existence and being for itself As already mentioned, being for itself is infinity that has sunk into simple being; it is existence in so far as in the now posited form of the immediacy of being the negative nature of infinity, which is the negation of negation, is only as negation in general, as infinite qualitative determinateness."
"This concept, which can be described only as a problem or task for thinking, but which can never be thought, indicates an empty place in our investigation, which we wish to designate with an."
"I am determined further.'"
"Translator's note: The remainder of this sentence has no equivalent in Griesheim's notes, on which this Addition is based (see,."
"Every satisfaction of this drive, to the extent that we are conscious of such an occurrence, necessarily occurs with freedom; and the human body is so constituted that through it one can exercise free efficacy."
"Third, spirit recogniz the idea as its absolute truth, as the truth that is in and for itself: the infinite idea in which cognizi and doing are equalized, and which is the absolute knowled of itself."
"But the issue first of all is not the form of opposition, which is at the same time the form of reference, but the abstract, immediate negation, the nothing purely for itself, negation devoid of reference and this can also be expressed, if one so wishes, simply by saying 'nothing.'"
"The proposition 'everyone shall do his duty by honestly fulfilling the particular obligations of his estate,' must therefore be understood with the following restriction: to the extent that he fulfills these obligations solely out of and for the sake of duty.'"
"But the natural will is opposed to !!"
"The imagination on the contrary stops short at the quantum as such without reflecting on the qualitative connection which constitutes the ground of the occurring incommensurability."
"Nothing has the significance of being the negative.of self consciousness; even the departed spirit is present in his blood Telationship, in the self of the family, an the universal power of the government is the will, the self of the nation."
"On the basis of this complete equality, counting is the raising to a power"
"The subjectivity which is preserved in this objectivity is such that (a)<U+FFFD>"
"The series of appearances given in themselves has an absolutely first beginning and This series is ab solutely and in itself without any beginning for both propositions are quite compatible, since appearances, as regards their existence"
"There, it was the unity of the concept and of reality in so far as the concept has gone over into reality and is lost in it; it did not stand opposite to it, or, since it is for the reality only an inner, it is itself for it only an external reflection."
"But the Unhappy Consciousness merely finds itself desiring and working; it is not aware that to find itself active in this way implies that it is in fact certain of itself, and that its feeling of the alien existence is this self feeling."
"I may influence the will of the other only through rational grounds and in absolutely no other way."
"A genetic description of willing, as something that proceeds from thinking which is, indeed, how willing must be described if it is to be represented as free can thus be stated as follows:"
"But even this is possible only because one tacitly supplements this act of thinking with a substrate that is merely thought even if the latter is entirely undetermined and even if it is only the form of an object in general."
"Nothing should be called moral except what occurs as a result of one's own free decision, without involving the slightest compulsion or the least external motive."
": these are purely transcendental predicates, and hence a purified concept of them, which every theology needs so very badly, can be drawn only from transcendental theology.a a"
"namely how subjective conditions of thinking should have objective validity,.e., yield conditions of the possibility of all cognition of objects; for appearances can certainly be given in intuition without functions of the understanding."
"This sphere of particularity imagines that it is universal, but in its merely relative identity with the universal, it retains both natural and arbitrary particularity, and hence the remnants of the state of nature."
"This would not merely mean that we should be supplied with a more effectual guide for the final employment of taste, but taste would further be presented as a link in the chain of the human faculties a priori upon which all legislation must depend."
"Education, in its absolute determination, is therefore liberation and work towards a higher liberation; it is the absolute transition to the infinitely subjective substantiality of ethical life, which is no longer immediate and natural, but spiritual and at the same time raised to the shape of universality."
"That identification of personalities whereby the family is a sillgle pers and its members are its accidents (although substance is essentially the relationship of accidents to itself"
"Such independence, however, is called freedom in the strictest,.e., the transcendental, meaning."
"Scientific cognition, on the contrary, demands surrender to the life of the object, Of, what amounts to the same thing, confronting and expressing its inner necessity."
"Hence the difference between the laws of a nature to which the will is subject and those of a nature that is subject to a will (in regard to what refers the will to its free actions) rests on this: that in the former nature the objects must be causes of the presentations that determine the will, but in the latter nature the will is to be the cause of the objects, so that the will's causality has its determining basis solely in the pure power of reason, a power that can therefore also be called a pure practical reason."
"Just as everything is useful to man, so man is useful too, and his vocation is to make himselfa member of the group, of use for the common good and serviceable to all."
"On the contrary, it can only be the nature of the content which is responsible for movement"
"I hold the division into paragraphs to be necessary only this far, because we have been dealing with the elementary concepts."
"They serve as first grounds for other things; they are spoken of, and deliberately made use of, as actual things; in good faith one accepts them as such, before one realizes that they are determinations inferred from that which they are supposed to ground, hypotheses and fictions derived by an uncritical reflection."
"But does such a common sense in fact exist as a constitutive principle of the possibility of experience, or is it formed for us as a regulative principle by a still higher principle of reason, that for higher ends first seeks to produce in us a common sense?"
"The deduction thus produces nothing more than theoretical cognition, and one must not expect anything more from it."
"the This is sovereiglIty of the state."
"With regard to the path for arriving at them, the Greek philosophers differed from one another inasmuch as the Cynics found the common human understanding sufficient for this, the others only the path of science, but thus both, after all, the mere use of our natural powers^ Christian morality, because it sets up its precept (as must indeed be done) as so pure and unforbearing, deprives the human being of the confidence of being fully adequate to it, at least here in life, but yet also uplifts it again by the prospect that if we act as well as is within our power, we can hope that what is not within our power will be accorded to us from elsewhere,"
"As a provisional statement I would say that a thing exists as a natural end if it is (though in a double sense) both cause and effect of itself."
"In the first edition there follows a paragraph (at above) that is replaced by the Transcendental Exposition of the Concept of Space in the second"
"Here, however, we are dealing only with good in the abstract, and conscience still lacks this objective content and is as yet only the infinite certainty of itself."
"Now since the world is an absolute whole, besides which there is encountered no object of intuition, and hence no correlate of the world to which the world could stand in relation,"
"His instruction is as such quite practical and is designed for immediate application."
", what it asserts to be an error or a lie, can be nothing else but its own self; it can condemn only what it is itself."
"The law making just considered contains the differences of the organism in their significance as moments of its Notion, and strictly speaking should be an a priori formulation of the law."
"with something aliell to the resolve which.knows what it does."
"But what obscured the fundamental idea of metaphysics from yet another side was that, as a priori cognition, it shows a certain homogeneity with mathematics, to which, as far as a priori origin is concerned, it is no doubt related; but the comparison between the kind of cognition from concepts in the former with the manner of judging a priori through the mere construction of concepts in the latter requires a difference between philosophical and mathematical cognition thus a decided heterogeneity is revealed, which was always felt, as it were, but was never able to be brought to distinct criteria."
"Brief concept of this deduction."
"Mis language,were he tos tand lin relation to the state power which has not yet come into being, would take the form ofcf)unsel, imparted for the general good."
"would themselves be the authors of their own enduring welfare and at the same time that of others."
"Ak. Literally, 'verified': bew hrt, See below, Ak.,."
"A A A. Vorstellung.)"
"t what it is for itself, thus, for example, mutual externality of nature is space, but for itself it is time."
"As soon as the power of judgment finds what was demanded, the fact that this is indeed what was demanded reveals itself through a feeling of harmony."
"TheTact that the will wills to be a 'som ii<U+FFFD>"
"What it contains in andfor itselfthetefore assumes the form of an obligation, because its actuality depends on dis ti and sovereign wills."
"Actual experience, which consists in the apprehension, the association (the reproduction), and finally the recognition of the appearances, contains in the last and highest (of the merely empirical elements of experience) concepts that make possible the formal unity of experience and with it all objective validity (truth) of empirical cognition."
"But since, however far the elements (of the analysis) reach, a good and secure use can always be made of them,"
"The System of the Principles of Pure Understanding First of all analytic judgments."
"Yet Kant also elucidates his thoughts on this topic by means of an example, an example that also serves very well to elucidate what we have just presented."
"Both are the same abstract universal."
"The state therefore knows what it wills, and knows it in its universality as something thought."
"Hence a priori principles Principien are."
"But one can also make a positive use of it,.e., not merely to ban false hood and error (insofar as it rests on contradiction), but also to cognize truth."
"The animal is a particular entity ein Partikulares which has its instinct and the means of satisfYing it, means whose bounds cannot be exceeded."
"Were it not to be presupposed, then there would be another starting point, one that would be higher and closer to my conviction, from which I could proceed and which I would prefer."
"Suppose a case of moral action; it is an objective reality for the knowing consciousness."
"Second peculiarity of the judgement of taste Proofs are of no avail whatever for determining the judgement of taste, and in this connexion matters stand just as they would were that judgement simply subjective."
"In so doing, he renounces before the essence of his pure consciousness all possession and right of the property and enjoyment thereof, renounces his personality and the return of his act into himself; and he reflects the act into the universal, or into the divine Being, rather than into himself."
"Literally, 'would not be there to be encountered': rde. ."
"a 'hundred dollars' is nothing self referring but something alterable and perishable."
"When one occupies the ordinary viewpoint, this necessity of consciousness imposes itself immediately."
"Such a velocity does not have concrete existence here, no more than does the one previously mentioned which is supposed to pertain to a falling body at the end of a moment of time."
"Thus every human being has an empirical character for his power of choice, which is nothing other than a certain causality of his reason, in sofar as in its effects in appearance this reason exhibits a rule, in accordance with which one could deriveb the rational grounds and the actions themselves according to their kind and degree, and estimateC the subjective principlesd of his power of choice."
"The Aesthetic there had two parts, because of the two kin of sensible intuition; here sensibility is regarded not at all as a capacity for intuition but merely as a feeling (which can be a subjective basis of desire), and with regard to it pure practical reason permits no further division."
"This content is, therefore, anything at all which has manifold determinations of its existence, among them also this, that it is in some respect or other cause or also effect."
"Its determinacy with regard to form is its end and the accomplishment of its end."
"The postulates arising ftom this now contain the harmonies both in and ftJr themselves, whereas previously they were postulated only as separate, one being in itself or implicit and the other being for itself or explicit."
"But now if it came to be a matter of doing or acting, then this play of merely speculative reason would disappear like the phantom images of a dream, and he would choose his principlesc merely according to practical interest."
"Moreover, the phrase 'drive of I hood"
"So likewise do the separation and relative identity which were present in the external organization of the police."
"(E. Everything actual is necessary, either absolutely or hypothetically."
"For in what we highly esteem but yet dread (because of the consciousness of our weaknesses), the greater ease in satisfying it results in the reverential dread's being transformed into fondness, and respect into love; at least this would be the perfection of an attitude devoted to the law, if it were ever possible for a creature to attain it."
"in what I possess and only become an actual will by this means constitutes the genuine and rightful element in possession, the determination of property.!"
"Hegel is only paraphrasing."
"The aim of oversight and provisions on the part of the police is to mediate between the individual Individuum and the universal possi bility which is available for the attainment of individual ends."
"Haller's text reads nellphilosophiscllen Irrtiimer ('errors of modern philosophy')."
"Further, if its place is in the theoretical division, then the position assigned to it must either be in natural science which is its proper position when it considers things capable of being objects of experience consequently in physics proper, psychology, or cosmology, or else in theology as the science of the original source of the world as the sum of all objects of experience."
"This sublating is not, consequently, alteration or otherness in general, not the sublating of something."
"Our understanding can only accomplish this task through the harmonizing of the features of nature with our faculty of concepts a most contingent accord."
"But the way in which a product of art seems like nature, is by the presence of perfect exactness in the agreement with rules prescribing how alone the product can be what it is intended to be, but with an absence of laboured effect (without academic form betraying itself), ie without a trace appearing of the artist having always had the rule present to him and of its having fettered his mental powers."
"Similarly in the oriental representation of emanation, the absolute is the self illuminating light."
"Further, it is evident that it is an alien force which would produce this turnabout, and this means that the sometimes accelerating, sometimes decelerating, velocity of the movement cannot be ascertained or, as it is said, explained from the assumed determination of the very factors which were assumed precisely for the sake of explaining this difference."
"The individual moments of this fulfilling and interfusion, prior to the unity in which they have coalesced, are the Ends hitherto considered."
"I. Quantity fJudgments Universal Particular Singular."
"Note in the first edition, dropped in the second."
"Juvenal, Vorstellungskr fte."
"oftheheart ome thing merely intcrlded which, unlike the established order, has stood the te$t"
"The unity in this formal necessity is therefore simple at first, and indifferent to its differences."
"In the same way the causality of the original being may, in its relation to the things of the world, regarded as natural ends, quite properly be conceived on the analogy of an intelligence, regarded as the source of the forms of certain products that we call works of art."
"We therefore claim no more than the following: if one thinks of determinate actions real and not merely ideal actions, as goes without saying as free actions, then, along with this thought, another thought will impose itself on us:"
"That they extend only to objects of experience."
"This infinity consists in nothing else but the perennial alternation of the two determinations of the relation, in each of which the other immediately arises, so that the positedness of one is the disappearing of itself."
"Here we may let the matter rest at the popular statement of the case."
"In the grip of hunger, thirst, and so forth, the sentient is the impulse to transcend this restriction, and it does transcend it."
"An inquisitor who condemns to death someone who seems to him to be a heretic can never be entirely certain that, in doing this, he is not acting unjustly."
"; in fact, the Understanding experiences only itself."
"The concept of identity, a simple negativity that refers itself to itself, is not the product of external reflection but derives from being itself."
"The aesthetic of the re<U+FB02>ective power of judgement will therefore constitute one part of the critique of this faculty, just as the logic of the same faculty, under the name of teleology, will constitute the other part."
"As yet, no deed has been committed; but the deed is the actual self."
"It therefore behooves us to consider the question just raised"
"The specific particularity of the determinateness communicated in the objects, what was before called species, returns to singularity, and the object asserts its externality as against the communicated universality."
"returned into itself, is certain of itself, and certain in it$elf of its truth, or of its own recognition of that truth and which is acknowledged as knowing it."
"But firstly, the result would be that morality would be made dependent on the necessary contingency of insight, and secondly, it is precisely the essence of conscience to have no truck with this calculating and weighing of duties, and to make its own decision without reference to any such reasons."
"The extreme of being for self is, however, the inner as an infinite One which takes back into itself, out of their subsistence and connection with outer Nature, the moments of shape itself; it is that which, without a content of its own, gives itself a content in its shape and appears in shape as its process."
"the ought, the imperative to transcend their restriction, is so strong that it is only with violence that they can be kept fixed as acid and caustic base (as waterless, that is, purely non neutral)."
"Jacobi, Uber die Lehre des Spinoza in Briefen an den Herrn Moses Mendelssohn (Breslau, ): '"
"The most eloquent, perhaps most forgotten accounts of the impossibility of advancing from an abstraction to something beyond it, and of uniting the two, are given by Jacobi in support of his polemic against the Kantian a priori synthesis of self consciousness, in his Treatise Concerning the Undertaking of Critique to Reduce Reason to the Understanding (Jacobi, Werke, Vol."
"In the concrete things, together with the diversity of the properties among themselves, there also enters the difference between the concept and its realization."
"the right oJthe subjective will in relation to the right of the world and to the right of the Idea which, however, has being only itl itself, the sphere of morality;."
"This moment of alterability and alteration, reflected into itself and essential, is the absolute negativity or the form in general as such: its moments, however, have the reality of self subsisting but reflected concrete existence in the world that has determinate being in and for itself, just as, conversely, this reflected self subsistence has form in it, and its content is therefore not a mere manifold but a content holding itself together essentially."
"By his name, then, the monarch is absolutely separated off from everyone else, exclusive and solitary; as monarch, he is a unique atom that cannot impart any of its essential nature."
"S strength with its beauty;"
"Two things are not merely two (numerical multiplicity is only the repetition of one) but are rather differentiated by a determination."
"The subject likewise contains these two moments in immediate unity as fact."
"Or the determinateness of the content contained in the definition is, for the very reason that it is determinateness, not only immediate but something mediated by its other."
"But natural or everyday phrenology for there must be such a 'science' as well as a natural physiognomy already goes beyond this restriction."
"Prior to all analysis of our representations these must first be given, and no concepts can arise analytically as far as t he'lla"
"It is false to say that the arbitrary will of everyone is capable of founding a state: on the contrary, it is absolutely necessary for each individual to live within the state."
"and independence of Nature towards moral purposes and activity, and, on the other hand, on the consciousness of duty alone as to. .)"
"This negativity which is identical with immediacy, and thus the immediacy which is identical with negativity, is essence."
"Criticism of the second paralogism of transcendental psychology."
"The organization of offi cial bodies accordingly faces the formal but difficult task of ensuring that civil life shall be governed in a concrete manner from below, where it is concrete, but that the business in question shall be divided into its abstraa branches and dealt with by distinct bodies; the latter should function as separate centres whose activities should again converge both at the lowest level and in a concrete overview on the part of the supreme executive."
"Determining reflection, for its part, does posit such terms as are identical with themselves; but these are at the same time only determined references."
"and thus I cannot know whether your assurance that you deem a white lie to be permissible is not itself an instance of a white lie."
"If, then, the determining ground of the judgement as to this universal communicability of the representation is to be merely subjective, that is to say, is to be conceived independently of any concept of the object, it can be nothing else than the state of the mind that presents itself in the mutual relation of the powers of representation so far as they refer a given representation to cognition in general."
"Inasmuch as mention may be made here of the proofs of the concrete existen of God, it is first to be noted that besides immediate being that comes first, and concrete existence (or the being that proceeds from essence) that comes second, there is still a third being, one that proceeds from the concept, and this is objectivity."
"It is just as impossible for anything to break out of it as to break into it; with Parmenides as with Spinoza, there is no advance from being or from absolute substance to the negative, the finite."
"Through this movement the path by which the odon of knowledge is reached becomes likewise a necessary and complete process of becoming; so that this preparatory path ceases to be a casual philosophizing that fastens on to this or that object, relationship, or thought that happens to pop up in the imperfect consciousness, or tries to base the truth on the pros and cons, the inferences and consequences, ofrigidly defined thoughts."
"the other, and even in respect of fundam.entals, it feeJs itself outmatched, it is by no means satisfied regarding the said demands for they are justified, but not fulfilled."
"Appearance is what the thing is in itself, or the truth of it."
"All empirical consciousness, however, has a necessary relation to a tran scendental consciousness (preceding all particular experience), namely the consciousness of myself, as original apperception."
"But this is precisely the enigma in the principle of judgement that necessitates a separate division for this faculty in the critique, for there was nothing to prevent the formation of logical judgements according to concepts (from which no immediate conclusion can ever be drawn to the feeling of pleasure or displeasure) having been treated, with a critical statement of its limitations, in an appendage to the theoretical part of philosophy."
"One of the chief moments in a child's upbringing is discipline, the purpose of which is to break the child's self will in order to eradicate the merely sensuous and natural."
"Still more, how little cause have we to place trust in our reason if in one of the most important parts of our desire for knowledge it does not merely forsake us but even entices us with delusions and in the end betrays us!"
"situation, customs, etc., which on the one hand are shown as already there, and on the other hand as present in this specific individuality, express only the indeterminate nature of the individuality, which is not the point under consideration."
"Present in the simplicity of something, and then with greater determinateness in being for itself, in the subject, and so forth, this mediation of itself with itself is also already present in becoming, but only as totally abstract mediation; mediation with itself is posited in the something in so far as the latter is determined as a simple identity."
"All material principles as such are, one and all, of one and the same kind and belong under the general principle of self love or one's own happiness."
"It is a condition of selfconsciousness, of I hood, to assume that there is an actual rational being outside of oneself."
"For if I lay the ball on the pillow the dent follows its previously smooth shape; but if (for whatever reason) the pillow has a dent, a leaden ball does not follow it."
"In the Phenomenology of Spirit, I have presented an example of this method with respect to a concrete object, namely consciousness.d"
"Starting from there, after the contradictions contained therein have been developed in the system, the concluding result is the same relation that made the beginning; the 'not I' remains an infinite shock, an absolute other; its final reciprocal reference connecting it with the 'I' is the infinite progress, longing and striving the same contradiction with which the beginning was made."
"But in the minor premise the very same concept is applied to the object of all inner experience, yet without previously establishing it in concreto and grounding the condition of its application, namely its persistence; and hence here an empir ical, though unreliable, use is being made of it."
"This cognition and actualization of right in the particular case"
"But here Enlightenment is foolish; faith regards it as not knowing what it is saying, and as not understanding the real facts when it talksahout priestly deception and deluding the people."
"This proposition, however, involves the contrary of the first one."
"duality, but this is only in imagination and does not really and truly belong to them; the actuaL self does not have such an abstractmomentforits substance and content."
"Finally, just as little should we understand the service as a help in time of need by which in truth the individual in his entirety is rescued; for such help is it fa comple contingent act, the occasion of which is an ordinary reality which canei ther be or not be."
"In intensive and extensive quantum, as we saw when considering these determinations, it is the same quantum which is present, once in the form of intensity and again in the form of extension."
"This unity ofbeing.for another or making oneself a Thing, and of being foraself)"
"It therefore follows, by virtue of an absolute command of the moral law, that such universal agreement simply must be achieved."
"What can be derived from consciousness of the moral law, therefore, is faith in the objective validity of this appearance of freedom. '"
"Objects Objects a Philosophy needs a science that determines the possibility,"
"what first forms an organizing whole, though not an organized whole in a single body."
"The difference with respect to the content of theorems is most intimately connected with this progression itself, and some further remarks concerning the latter will serve to clarify that difference further, as well as the nature of synthetic Cf."
"tive is, only as related to a negative, or, the positive is in its own self the difference from itself; and similarly with the nega tive."
"The universal that we have here is, then, only a universal resistance and struggle of all against one another, in which each claims validity for his own individuality, but at the same time does not succeed in his efforts, because each meets with the same resistance from the others, and is nullified by their redprocal resistance."
"For pure and in itself practical reason is here directly legislative."
", A /B. of sight, in the hope that if they did not speak of it at all then presumably no one would readily think of it either."
"To suggest that it was made for enjoyment, or to be gazed at, contemplated and admired which if the matter ends there, amounts to no more than enjoyment of a particular kind as though enjoyment was the ultimate and final end of the presence here of the world and of man himself, cannot satisfy reason."
"But since the result now is that the idea is the unity of the concept and objectivity, the true, we must not regard it as just a goal which is to be approximated but itself remains always a kind of beyond; we must rather regard everything as being actual only to the extent that it has the idea in it and expresses it."
"The moral point of view therefore takes the shape of"
"A natural series is continuous."
"Vanished is the obscurity which the causally related substances have for each other, for the originariness of their self subsistence that makes them caus has passed over into positedness and has thereby become self transparently clear; the 'originary fact' is 'originary' because it is a 'self causing fact,' and this is the substance that has been let go freely into the concept"
"consciousness of my own existence proves the existence of objects in space outside me."
"Just as in Leibniz's above mentioned ficti that of a magnetic needle which, if it had consciousness, would see its northerly direction as a determination of its freedom consciousness is thought only as a one sided form indifferent to its determination and content, so is the ideality in the monads a form that remains external to their plurality."
"So far as sublimity is predicated of might, this solution of the concept of it appears at variance with the fact that we tend to represent God in the tempest, the storm, the earthquake, and the like, as presenting himself in his wrath, but at the same time also in his sublimity, and yet here it would be alike folly and presumption to imagine a pre eminence of our minds over the operations and, as it appears, even over the direction of such might."
"If the understanding may be a faculty of unity of appearances by means of rules, then reason is the faculty of the unity of the rules of understanding under principles."
"In fact it cannot even be seen how there could be a logical principleg of rational unity among rules unless a transcendental principleh is pre supposed, through which such a systematic unity, as pertaining to the object itself, is assumed a priori as necessary."
"Since the ethical nation lives in immediate unity with its substance and lacks the principle of the pure individuality of self consciousness, the complete form of its religion first appears as divorced from its existential shape Bestehen."
"In this advance the beginning thus loses the one sidedness that it has when determined simply as something immediate and abstract; it becomes mediated, and the line of scientific forward movement consequently turns into a circle."
"and, if the pleasure is to be of the same kind for everyone, by means of very determinate practical concepts of reason."
"This self subsistent negativity outside the object, the concrete existence of the abstract singularity whose being for itself has its reality in the non indifferent object, is in itself now in tension with its abstraction, an inherently restless activity outwardly bent on consuming."
"(E. What can be thought indeterminately in any time is possible."
"Of all the intelligible absolutely nothing but freedom (by means of the moral law) has a reality for us except for the sake of this law and the use of pure practical reason, and even freedom has such reality only insofar as it is a presupposition inseparable from that law; and, furthermore, all intelligible objects in turn to which reason might perhaps still lead us under the guidance of that law have no reality other than this."
"This pleasure is by the judgement of taste pronounced valid for everyone; hence an agreeableness attending the representation is just as incapable of containing the determining ground of the judgement as the representation of the perfection of the object or the concept of the good."
"Thoughts become fluid when pure thinking, this inner immediacy, recognizes itself as a moment, or when the pure certainty of self abstracts from itself not by leaving itself out, or setting itself aside, but by giving uP. the fixity of its self positing, by giving up not only the fixity of the pure concrete, which the 'I' itself is, in contrast with its differentiated content, but also the fixity of the differentiated moments which, posited in the element of."
"Such determinations then count as grounds of division, of which there can be a variety, just as there can be an equal variety of divisions based on them."
"The concept is free because the identity that exists in and for itself and constitutes the necessity of substance exists at the same time as sublated or as positedness, and this positedness, as self referring, is that very identity."
"What is, for the Understanding, an object in a sensuous covering, is for us in its essential form as a pure Notion."
"The con cept of this cause, however, has to give us something quite determinate to cognize about it, and thus it cannot be anything other than that of a being that possesses all power, wisdom, etc."
"For this will always remain unknown to us, so that it even remains unknown whether such a transcendental (extraordinary) cognition is possible at all, at least as one that stands under our customary categories."
"But the purpose and content of the will belong solely to the universal substance itself and can only be a universal."
"When we ask for the predicate that belongs to such subjects, the required judgment must be based on a concept that is presupposed; yet it is the predicate that first gives this concept"
": This is a proposition"
"On the other hand, however, consciousness itself really places the object outside itselfas a beyond of itself."
"That there are absorbent earths of different species (chalky earths and muriatic earths) needed for its discovery a foregoing rule of reason that made it a task for the understanding to seek for varieties, by presupposing nature to be so abundant that it presumes them."
"Though I raise this question only at this point, the answer is valid for our entire present inquiry."
"A A need of pure reason in its speculative use leads only to hypotheses; but that of pure practical reason, to postulates."
"The world of sense, if it is bounded, necessarily lies in an infinite emptiness."
"Now, although it is true that the contradiction in the objective essence is in this way distributed among different Things, yet the difference will, for that reason, attach to the singular separated Thing itself."
"The first is grounded on a extensively intensively In the first edition, as."
"Both, repulsion and attraction, are at first distinguished from each other, repulsion as the reality of the ones, attraction as their posited ideality."
"For this is requisite for community, but is not even comprehensible among things each of which is entirely isolated from the others through its subsistence."
"As surely as I reflect at all I am just as surely necessitated to perceive this drive and to posit it as mine."
"Causality has thereby returned to its absolute concept and has at the same time attained the concept itself."
"In its case the question of what the thing is to be is regarded as definitely disposed of, and we only ask whether it is possessed of all the requisites that go to make it such."
", they are related solely to objects of empirical cognition, or appearances."
"The second self is the world of culture which has attained its truth, or it is Spirit that has recovered itselffrom its dividedness absolute freedom."
"The system of the transcendental ideas."
"Now these direct us toward three subjective sources of cognition, which make possible even the understanding and, through the latter, all experience as an empirical product of understanding."
"The former considers only the understanding and reason itself in a system of all concepts and principles that are related to objects in general, without assuming objectsC that would be given (Ontologia); the latter considers nature,.e."
"Existenz Existenz here and in the remainder of this sentence."
"Moreover, the concept and anything logical are declared to be something merely formal which, since it abstracts from content, does not contain truth."
"The sacrifice of existence which happen in the service of the state is indeed complete when it has gone as far as death; but the hazard of death which the individual survives leaves him with a definite existence and hence wi tha particular self interest, and this makes his counsel about what is bestJor the general good ambiguous and open to suspicion."
"It would therefore concern the origin of our cognitions of objects insofar as that cannot be ascribed to the objects; while general logic, on the contrary, has nothing to do with this origin of cognition, but rather considers representations, whether they are originally given a priori in ourselves or only empirically, merely in re spect of the laws according to which the understanding brings them into relationb to one another when it thinks, and therefore it deals only with the form of the understanding, which can be given to the repre sentations wherever they may have originated."
"the indifference and arbitrariness of such a procedure would be no more glaring than that which assigns to every faculty of soul, to every passion, and what must equally be considered here to each nuance of character which the more refined psychology and 'knowledge of human.ature' likes to talk about, its particular area of skull and shape of skullbone."
"When reflection is highly developed, the police may tend to draw everything it can into its sphere of influence, for it is possible to discover some potentially harmful aspect in everything."
"As the universal, the middle term is with respect to both its extremes the term that subsumes or the predicate not a term for once also subsumed or the subject."
"this purposiveness is manifested in concreto, but would have to think it solely in general terms."
"Since both these determinations are united in it, by virtue of this unity of determinations the extremes are joined together."
"The middle term, the third term in which the terms linked in the theorem present themselves in their unity and that provides the nerve of the proof, is therefore only something in which the connectedness appears and is external."
"The Power of the Sovereign"
"It should in the first place be noted that such a relationship is associated with that view Vorstellung of the state according to which its sole function Bes /lung is to protect and secure the life, property, and arbitrary will of everyone, in so far as the latter does not infringe the life, property, and arbitrary will of others; in this view, the state is merely an arrangement dictated by necessity Not."
"essential nature is."
"The speculative reflection of spirit, to mention it here, consists on the contrary in grasping and enunciating contradiction."
"Second, the reaction is directed at the first efficient cause."
"Such an artifact exhibits the concept of a concept, which is what was previously identified as the criterion of a rational being outside me."
"From this point of view, no immanent theory of duties is possible."
"With respect to this matter, I am in his service; I cannot take back my word without frustrating those actions of his which he undertook in view of my promise, and hence without destroying his causality in the sensible world."
"I render Bewegursache as 'motivating cause' rather than as 'motive' in order to preserve the reference to 'cause' Ursache), which is especially important in contexts where causes are explicitly discussed, as indeed they are here."
"Those pedagogical experiments in removing people from the ordinary life of the present and bringing them up in the country (cf."
"It is beyond doubt that this censorship inevitably leads to doubt about all transcendent use of principles."
"For with a literary work, the thought is represented not in concrete depiction but only by a series of discrete and abstract signs, and with a technical device, the thought has a completely mechanical content; and the ways and means of producing such things Sacl/et/ qua things, belong to the category of ordinary skills."
"The understanding is not capable of intuiting anything, and the senses are not capable of thinking anything."
"But this third has various empirical shapes that abstraction either sets aside or neglects for the sake of holding fast to its two products, being and nothing, each for itself, and showing them as protected against 'I define existence as the complement of possibility.'"
"the being of the self conscious individuality."
"But if it is only the law of progressively determining magnitudes without however ever possibly attaining the required perfect, that is, the so called finite, determination, then in both methods the result amounts to the same thing."
"But self consciousness was at first only incompletely related to its objects, viz."
"But this is still a conditioned being."
"The satisfaction of this content is welfore or happiness, both in its particular determinations and in its universal aspect the ends of finitude in general."
"Ifwe look now at the range of relationships as a whole, in which the self."
"This reflection is the first stage of the forward movement the emergence of non indifference, judgment, and determining in general."
"But this 'way and manner' is the determination of the absolute itself, namely its first identity or its mere implicitly existent unity."
"If so, are they constitutive, or are they merely regulative, thus indicating no special realm?"
"There have been astronomers who liked to flatter themselves about the sublimity of their science on the ground that it deals with an immeasurable multitude of stars, with immeasurable spaces and times within which the already vast distances and periods that serve as their units, even when taken many times over, shrink to insignificance."
"In this genesis of religion, Spirit itself therefore assumes specific 'shapes' which constitute the different moments of this movement; at the same time, the specific religion has likewise a specific actual Spirit."
"the strenuous effort required to think in tetms of the Notion."
"They have, in relation to consciousness, the authority not only of being in the first place, but also of having a particular nature which the consciousness acknowledges, and by which it is guided in its behaviour towards them, its dealings with them, and its use of them."
"There are only two possible cases in which synthetic representation and its objects can come together, necessarily relate to each other, and, as it were, meet each other: Either if the object alone makes the representation possible, or if the representation alone makes the object possible."
"Hence he has to seek out a like minded individual, one who, like him, has thrown off belief in authority; and he cannot rest easy with his own conscience until he has found such a person and found in him a confirmation of his conviction, as well as a means for recording the same, until such time as it may be of some use for the whole."
"The true, ie the self conscious and existent, equalization of the two sides is necessitated by and already con.tained in the foregoing."
"When the matter is expressed in these terms, the qualitative determinateness stands out in its distinction from what is given to intuition, from the whole as continuous in itself; congruity does not let this distinction show through."
"On account of this ambiguity, we must look around for the inner as it still is within the individual himself, but in a visible or external shape."
"On the one hand, therefore, the passive substance is preserved or posited by the active, namely in so far as the latter sublates itself; but, on the other hand, it is the act of the passive substance itself to rejoin itself and thus to make itself into what is originary and a cause."
"Its self identity (the negation of the negation that constitutes its internal being) is thus modified by carrying a reference to the would be, qualitatively independent predicate."
"Hence consciousness would again have to assume responsibility for placing the diversity in the One and for keeping it away from the Thing."
"It refers to it as an other only because form is not posited in it, because it is form only implicitly."
"Now for nature in general, as an object of possible experience, that law is cognized as absolutely necessary."
"Hence also nothing that one could determine through any predicate and call persistent."
"This unification has, however, already occurred in principle and that, too, in religion, in the return of picture thinking into self consciousness, but not according to the proper form, for the religious aspect is the aspect of the in itself which stands over against the movement of self consciousness."
"otherwise no guidance to the truth is forthcoming at all."
"When it is divided in this way, the Idea gives a distitlct existence Dasein to its moments to parti larity it gives the right to develop and express itselfin all directions, and to universality the right to prove itself both as the ground and necessary form of particularity, and as the power behind it and its ultimate end."
"It follows that the self subsistent, in itself, is also not a part, for it is a part only by virtue of that connecting reference."
"Matter is as such determined or necessarily has a form, and form is simply material, subsistent form."
"which is object for it, is, or its picture thought is the true, absolute content; as we saw, it expressed Spirit itself."
"The concept, however, that carries a necessity of synthetic unity with it can only be a pure concept of understanding, which does not lie in the per ception, and that is here the concept of the relation of cause and effect, the former of which determines the latter in time, as its conse quence,b and not as something that could merely precede in the imaginationc (or not even be perceived at all)."
"But this is no progress, for part and whole, cause and effect, are relations indeed, in the context of this formal cognition"
"But the moral law is at the same time the I itself; it comes from the inner depth of our own being Wesen and when we obey it we are still obeying only ourselves."
"That, to top it off, this form of untruest existence would be extended to the 'I,' to the concept, is more than one should have expected and it must be regarded as an inept form of barbarism."
"the essence is for faith"
"The Stoics, by contrast, had chosen their supreme practical principle quite correctly, viz., virtue, as condition of the highest good."
"knowledge and volition, and subjectivity is educated in its particularity."
", all appearances of nature, as far as their combination is concerned, stand under the categories, on which nature (considered merely as nature in general) depends, as the original ground of its necessary lawfulness ("
"The sum which is supposed to be the root, reduced to its simple determinateness, that is, its true generality, is the binomial; any other increase of the terms is a mere repetition of the same determination and, therefore, something empty.m What matters here is only the qualitative determinateness of the terms which result from the raising to a power of the root taken as sum, a determinateness which lies solely in the alteration which the potentiation is."
"Thus we have been brought at least to the well grounded suspicion that the cosmological ideas, and all the sophistical assertions about them that have come into conflict with one another, are perhaps grounded on an empty and merely imagined concept of the way the object of these ideas is given to us; and this suspicion may already have put us on the right track for exposing the semblance that has"
"We must see the development of this concept a development that will rather look like confusion and contradiction."
"I sincerely hope that an age such as ours will not take itself to be identical with humanity.)"
"There will always be the possibility that someone else will adduce a case, an instance, in which something more and different must be understood by some term or other a term which is therefore to be defined in a narrower or broader sense and the science, too, will have to be refashioned accordingly."
"Its reflection, however, consists in positing itself as what it is in itself, as a negative, and in determining itself."
"Yet he could not have known this entirely a priori."
", this, its meaning, is that it is the function as in the expansion of a binomial generally,"
"These images can, a Principien Princip Urbilde beurtheilen though only improperly, be called ideals of sensibility because they are supposed to be the unattainable model for possible empirical intuitions, and yet at the same time they are not supposed to provide any rule capable of being explained or tested."
"But from the similar mode of activity on the part of the lower animals, the source of which we are unable directly to perceive, compared with that of man, of which we are immediately conscious, we may quite correctly infer, on the strength of the analogy, that the lower animals, like man, act according to representations, and are not machines, as Descartes contends, and that, despite their specific difference, they are living beings and as such generally kindred to man."
"But, (b) if we consider this result more closely, in its going away and ceasing to be, in this negation of itself, the finite has attained its being in itself; in it, it has rejoined itself."
"One of the two content determinations of the two somethings is therefore determined, not merely as being common to them according to external comparison, but as their identical substrate and the foundation of their connection."
"Let us now view this same matter from another angle."
"Lastly, if instead of sensibility and irritability, reproduction is brought into relation with one or the other of them, there is no longer evcn the occasion for making laws of this kind; for reproduction does not stand in an antithetical relation to those moments as they do to one another; and since this law making is based on such an antithesis, here even the show of its being practised is absent."
"The said pure concept passes through the finite forms of the judgment and the syllogism precisely because it is not yet posited in and for itself as one with objectivity, but is conceived rather only in the process of becoming that objectivity."
"This it actually is only in the aet obedience which it gets through self."
"In this way, the organism appears to the observing consciousness as a relation oftwojixed moments in the form ofimmediate being of an antithesis whose two sides, on the one hand, appear to be given to it in observation, and on the other hand, as regards their content, express the antithesis of the organic Notion of End and actuality; but because the Notion as such is effaced therein, the antithesis is expressed in an obscure and superficial way, in which thought has sunk to the level of picture thinking."
"Talent is likewise nothing else but the determinate, original individuality considered as an inner means, or as a transition from End to an achieved reality."
"But it is not by means of any aesthetic appreciation that we consider such properties purposive."
"Like 'water,' 'fire,' or 'air,' this unity is a pervasive element that embraces differences."
"This is the moment of posited difference, the opening up of the negativity otherwise locked up in simple self feeling or present in it as abstractly ideal, not yet concretely real determinateness."
"that such is approximately the order of these bodies, but so little research has been done into this matter that nothing altogether certain can yet be ascertained regarding this relative order.'"
"Conversely, even if the given representations be rational, but are referred in a judgement solely to the subject (to its feeling), they are always to that extent aesthetic."
"As the level of culture rises and as culture spreads more widely such privileges will cease, and it is the end of both nature and of reason that they should cease and that there should arise a complete equality of all citizens according to birth but equality only in this respect"
"This wisdom, peculiar to."
"The fact that the armed power of the state becomes a standing amlY and that the vocation Bestimmung for the particular task of defending it becomes an estate is a result of the same necessity whereby its other particular moments, interests, and functions become estates such as those of marriage, trade and industry, the civil service, business, etc."
"The doctrine of being contains the first proposition, 'being is essence.'"
"Since the will has a presupposition Oflli.lS Iiliid, it is firiite or rather, since it is finite, it has a presupposition of this kind."
"Finally, in respect of happiness everyone believes that the greatest aggregate of the pleasures of life, taking duration as well as number into account, merits the name of a true, indeed even of the highest, good."
"That the delight in an object on account of which we call it beautiful is incapable of resting on the representation of its utility, is abundantly evident from the two preceding moments; for in that case, it would not be an immediate delight in the object, which latter is the essential condition of the judgement upon beauty."
"Through this externalization, this knowledge which in its existence is self discordant returns to the unity of the se.lf."
"It might well happen, however, that once the power of judgment enters thedomain of reflection it would find itself unable to achieve comprehension, even in accordance with that law that arises simply by reversing the law of subsumption."
"But the truth of this semblance is that it is null and void, and that"
"As a finite entity, it is said to lack justification, and only through religion can it be sanctified and belong to the infinite."
"That the mechanism of calculus thereby loses, particularly in its application, the advantage derived from the sides of the differential coefficient being separated from each other, this we shall disregard here."
"How could I possibly pretend that the method that I follow in this system of logic, or rather the method that this system itself follows within, would not be capable of greater perfection, of greater elaboration of detail?"
"The one repels only itself from itself; it does not come to be"
"What are we really asserting here, and what positive element are we tacitly presupposing?"
"We will endeavor to determine whether such a derivation is possible."
"Its dialectical movement displays it in the full range of the moments of the concept, so that not only the said relation of subsumption or particularity, but just as essentially the negative unity and the universality, are moments in the process of closing this unity."
"Third, quantum in qualitative form is quantitative ratio."
"The alteration thus concerns only the arrogant claims of the schools, which would gladly let themselves be taken for the sole ex perts and guardians of such truths (as they can rightly be taken in many other parts of knowledge), sharing with the public only the use of such truths, while keeping the key to them for themselves xxxiv salus vult scire videri)."
"There is certainly no more beautiful trait in a human character than sincerity"
"It is now the specific antithesis of the two sexes whose natural existence acquires at the same time the sig."
"In the states of classical antiquity, universality was indeed already present, but particularity Partikularitiit had not yet been released and set at liberty and brought back to universality, ie to the universal end of the whole."
"For the exposition of the true mathematical infinite, the form of the series has been used from the beginning and of late it has been invoked again."
"The synthesis of the conditioned with its condition and the whole series of the latter (in the major premise) carries with it no limitation through time and no concept of succession."
", determinateness is as such outside itself, an absolute externality and a something just as external; such a limit, the indifference of the limit as limit and the indifference of the something to the limit, constitutes the quantitative determinateness of the something."
"I have become a cause' means that the feeling that is demanded actually does occur."
"However, to call thought, spirit, God, only an idealization, presupposes the standpoint according to which finite existence counts as the real, and idealization or the being for one has only a one sided meaning."
"In the analytical part of the critique it is proved that space and time are only forms of sensible intuition, and therefore only conditions of the existence of the things as appearances, further that we have no concepts of the understanding and hence no elements for the cognition of things except insofar as an intuition can be given corresponding to these concepts, consequently that we can have cognition of no object as a thing in itself, but only insofar as it is an objectb of sensible intuition, ie as an appearance; from which follows the limitation of all even possible speculative cognition of reason to mere objects of experience."
"Nothing, pure nothingness; it is simple equality with itself, complete emptiness, complete absence of determination and content; lack of all distinction within."
"The syllogism The syllogism is the result of the restoration of the concept in the judgment, and consequently the unity and the truth of the two."
"Instead, the people in such a state would remain forever at whatever stage"
"We will now explain more clearly the result of our present investigation."
"no reconciliation with myself."
"A A could not be given to us in any way."
"This area of the brain which would in this way be more moved and activated would probably also develop the adjacent area of the skull."
"Form, therefore, does not determine essence, as if it were truly presupposed, separate from essence,"
"Kant accompanies the mention of these two sublimes with the remark 'that wonder (for the first, the external) and reverence (for the second, the inner) do indeed excite research but cannot substitute for their deficiency.'"
"According to these laws, the son never attained his majority de iure, nor did he become a legal rechtliche person, and the spoils of war (peculium castrense) were the only property which he could own; and if he escaped from his father's authority by being sold and liberated on three occasions in the manner described above, he could not inherit along with those who remained in servitude to the family unless he was expressly included in the will."
"The whole, however, is nothing other than the reciprocal interaction of the complete sum of all its parts."
"For you have either no perception that absolutely bounds your empirical regress, and then you must not hold your regress to be complete; or if you have such a perception bounding your series, then this cannot be a part of your regressive series (because that which bounds must be distinguished from that which is bounded by it), and so you have to continue your regress further to this condition, and so on."
"Identity is this one reflection of the two, the identity which has difference within it only as an indifferent difference and is diversity in general."
"Love is nature and reason in their most original union."
"Here, then, the terms of the series are not to be seen as parts of a sum, but as qualitative moments of a conceptual whole."
"Theorem: If the enemy encamps in the vicinity, and the attempt at a rush to relieve the siege is expected, a line of circumvallation must be drawn around the whole siege."
"The use of thought determinations that we earlier called 'natural logic' is unconscious; and when in science this role of serving as means is reflectively attributed to them, then thinking as such is made subordinate in the life of spirit to the other spiritual activities."
"As we have now seen, the criterion for the correctness of our conviction is an inner one."
"For some time now, organization has always been directed from above, and efforts have been devoted for the most part to this kind of organization, despite the fact that the lower level of the masses as a whole can easily be left in a more or less disorganized state."
"to oneself as constitutive, and to think of this unity hypostatically."
"The ethical disposition within this system is therefore that of rectitude and the lOur of one's estate, so that each individual, by a process of self determination, makes himself a member of one of the moments of civil society through his activity, diligence, and skill, and supports himself in this capacity; and only through this mediation with the universal does he simultaneously provide for himself and gain recognition in his own eyes Vorstell zg and in the eyes of others."
"Sensibility and its field, namely that of appearances, are themselves limited by the understanding, in that they do not pertain to things in themselves, but only to the way in which, on account of our subjective constitution, things appear to us."
"As spirit, it is simply the movement of its own activity in gaining absolute knowledge of itself and thereby freeing its consciousness from the form"
"We take advantage of one of the animal's instincts in order to attach to it the particular abilities that we wish to develop; and so too with human beings: by treating them in this manner we would be aiming simply to train but not to cultivate them."
"What I had was an ideal whole, a collective unity, by no means a real unity; an aggregate, not a compound."
"But we should consider that bodies are not objects in themselves that are present to us, but rather a mere appearance of who knows what unknown object; that motion is not the effect of this unknown cause, but merely the appearance of its influence on our senses; that consequently neither of these is something outside us, but both are merely representations in us, hence that it is not the motion of matter that causes representations in us, but that motion itself (hence also the matter that makes itself knowable through it) is a mere representation; and finally that the whole self made difficulty comes to this:"
"But when it was further said that whatever exists concretely has a ground and is conditioned, it also would have had to be said that it has no ground and is unconditioned."
"In either meaning, existence is taken for something superior to positedness, which is attributed to external reflection, to the subjective."
"Alteration of type Umartung interferes with the entire organization and sooner or later leads to extinction."
"But it is only the judgement whereby I regard an individual given tulip as beautiful, ie regard my delight in it as of universal validity, that is a judgement of taste."
"A teleological judgement does not presume to assert, with respect to this objective purposiveness, that nature (or any other being working through nature)"
"are questions which I have discussed in the Ph /mology of Spirit (pp."
"this purpose are so represented is a historical warrant for invoking such or such fact as conceded, or, more precisely, only for pleading that such or such fact should be accepted as conceded."
"Extrinsic purposiveness is an entirely different concept from that of intrinsic purposiveness, the latter being connected with the possibility of an object irrespective of whether its actuality is itself an end or not."
"This skeptical method, however, is essentially suited only to tran scendental philosophy, and can in any case be dispensed with in every other field of investigation, but not in this one."
"For the former comes forward in opposition to the latter and thereby as a particular law."
"in part because drohen, like 'threaten,' is intransitive, so that 'anything,' the object of verhei en ('promising'), cannot also be its object."
"But, further, this soul is in its immediacy immediately external, and has an objective being within it a reality which is subjugated to purpose,"
"With this important alteration in the field of the sciences, and with the loss of its hitherto imagined possessions that speculative reason must suffer, everything yet remains in the same advantageous state as it was before concerning the universal human concern and the utility that the world has so far drawn from the doctrines of pure reason, and the loss touches only the monopoly of the schools and in no way the interest of human beings."
"It is therefore merely alteration, and not an origination out of nothing."
"Through this indifference both to their transition and to their self subsistence, the substances are objects."
"Cf., among other places, the edition of the Critique of Pure Reason,."
"Just as everyone is free before himself, so is everyone free within thisdomain."
"When its moments are graspedintheir purity, they are the restless Notions"
"In civil society, each individual is his own end, and all else means nothing to him."
"the rest of the body that follows its motion still does not prove the contingency of its motion just because the former is the opposite of the latter."
"If compulsion is the only means that can be found for subjugating the children to the end of education, then the parents have the right of compulsion, and it is then their duty to compel their children, if this is indeed the only way to achieve the end required by duty."
"Consciousness starts from the ideathat,Jor it, morality and reality do not harmonize; but it is not in earnest about this, for in the deed the presence of this harmony becomes explicit for it."
"The observations and calculations of astronomers have taught us much that is worthy of admiration, but most important, probably, is that they have exposed for us the abyss of our ignorance, which without this infonnationd human reason could never have imagined' to be so great; reflection on this ignorance has to produce a great alteration in the determination of the final aims!"
"The particularity of the consciousness of the will will Of abstract of right is therefore: and be a is indeed a moment within the entire (see, but it is not yet contained in the abstract personality as such."
"But this same sensibility, insofar as it influences the action of the understanding and determines it to judgments, is the ground of error."
"A plant would feel good when it grows if only a plant were able to reflect."
"but not of speculative cognition."
"A moral theology, or ethicotheology, would be the attempt to infer that cause and its attributes from the moral end of rational beings in nature an end which can be known a priori."
"Becoming thus contains being and nothing as two such unities, each of which is itself unity of being and nothing; the one is being as immediate and as reference to nothing; the other is nothing as immediate and as reference to being; in these unities the determinations are of unequal value."
"To be sure, the governor of such an actual state, who nevertheless governs according to ideas, cannot actually discharge this responsibility that is demanded by reason, for there is no one to whom he might discharge it; but he still governs as though he were responsible to the people in a manner such that he is always ready to give an account of himself if this should be demanded. '"
"Disregarding everything that is brought about by our civil constitution, public opinion, the power of imagination, and the like, the father's love of his child is only an indirect or mediated love."
"Now what is especially remarkable is that even among our experi ences cognitions are mixed in that must have their origin a priori and that perhaps serve only to establish connection among our represen tations of the senses."
"(In passing, we should mention that it cannot be our intention on this occasion to provide an exhaustive treatment of the theory of education.)"
"it is the peculiar content of metaphysics that leads it into contradictions; the inadequacy of cognition is due to its subjectivity."
"Accordingly, it is not the highest thing in us which perishes, and we are elevated not by the doumfoll oJthe best"
"Since thought has set itself up as the essential form, we must attempt to grasp right, too, in terms of thought."
"To say then that evil contains the more precise determination that the human being is evil in so far as his will is natural would run counter to the common idea"
"But since we have before us here nothing that we can use except the pure fundamental concepts of all possible experience, in which there must be nothing at all empirical, we cannot anticipate general natural science, which is built upon certain fundamental experiences, without injuring the unity of the system."
"The national Spirits which become conscious of their essence in the shape of a particular animal coalesce into a single Spirit."
"But the fomlalism of right and also of duty! arises out of the different stages in the development of the concept of freedom."
"Inasmuch as the inner and the outer are considered as determinations of form, they are, therefore, first, only the simple form itself, and, second, because in this form they are at the same time determined as opposite, their unity is the pure abstract determination in which the one is immediately the other, and is this other because it is the one that it is."
"This synthetic unity, however, presupposes a synthesis, or includes it, and the former to necessary a priori then the latter must also be One should attend carefully to this proposition, which is of great importance."
"The main business of this reflection thus consists in gleaning the ground from an existence, that is, in converting the immediate existence into the form of reflected being; consequently the ground, instead of being self subsisting in and for itself, is rather that which is posited and derived."
"In the syllogism of reflection this result is posited in the syllogism itself: the major premise presupposes its conclusion, for it contains the union of the singular with a predicate that would have to be a conclusion first."
"Through this positing of itself as something detemlinate, ste into xistence Dasein in general the absolute moment of the nitude or part cu/arization of the iJ."
"In this respect, the first is just as much the ground, and the last a derivative; since the movement makes its start from the first and by correct inferences arrives at the last as the ground, this last is result."
"In order for perception to become experience, it must be given the synthetic unity provided by the understanding's categories."
"If we hear any further talk of 'the people' as an unorganized whole, we know in advance that we can expect only generalities and one sided declamations."
"In this case, I hood would, so to speak, remain divided in the same way it was divided above: the drive would not coincide with the will, and I would be conscious only of my willing, of my sheer empty willing."
"a gleichfo'rmige A A /B"
"The absolute is the absolute form which in its diremption of itself is utterly identical with itself, is the negative as negative or the negative that rejoins itself and in this way alone is the absolute self identity which equally is indifferent towards its distinctions or is absolute content."
"But what shows plainly that the principle of the ideality of the purposiveness in the beauty of nature is the one upon which we ourselves invariably take our stand in our aesthetic judgements, forbidding us to have recourse to any realism of a natural end in favour of our faculty of representation as a principle of explanation, is that in our general judging of beauty we seek its standard a priori in ourselves, and, that the aesthetic faculty is itself legislative in respect of the judgement whether anything is beautiful or not."
"Since the subject, as something immediately determined, is as yet not posited in its concept, its concretion is not reduced to its essential determinacies; its self referring determinateness is therefore indeterminate, an infinite manifoldness."
"But we have shown against this that being and nothing are in fact the same, or to speak in the language cited, that there is nothing which is not an intermediary state between being and nothing."
"This cognition is analytic cognition."
"Kant actually says (redundantly) 'hinges on': kommt darauf an."
"There are cases where human beings, even with the same upbringing that was simultaneously profitable for others, nevertheless show from childhood such early villai and increa it so continuously into their years of manhood that they are considered to be born villains and entirely incapable of improvement as far as their way of thinking is concerned; yet they are just as much tri for their doing and refraining, just as much reprimanded as guilty of their crimes, and indeed they (the children)"
"retribution should evoke the idea Vorstelltmg of a particular caprice of the subjective will, it must be replied that it signifies merely the shape of the crime turned round against itself."
"I point out the 'Now', and it is asserted to be the truth."
"We can only say that the forms of aUa political constitutions are one sided if they cannot sustain within them selves the principle of free subjectivity and are unable to conform to fuUy developed reason."
"Hence we shall have to have in this critique a Doctrine of Elements and a Doctrine of Method; and within the former an Analytic, as rule of truth, as the first part, and a Dialectic as exhibition and resolution of the illusi in judgments of practical reason."
"second, that the free acting of the"
"For the determining appeal is made to an other which lies outside the indifference."
"It is therefore no object of cognition in itself, but only the rep resentation of appearances under the concept of an object in general, which is determinable through the manifold of those appearances.d, Just for this reason, then, the categories do not represent any special objecte given to the understanding alone, but rather serve only to de termine the transcendental object!"
"It is our duty to decline requests if, according to our own best insight, granting them would do more harm than good to the person making them, though such refusal should be accompanied by reasonable arguments Vorstellungen meant to correct his concepts and to get him to withdraw this desire for assistance of his own free will."
"But they are preserved only in the sense that they are justified not as independent entities, but only in such a way and to such an extent as is determined by the Idea of the whole; their source is the latter's authority Macht and they are its fluid members, just as it is their simple self."
"certainty and perception; for the world of appearance is, on the contrary, not the world of sense knowledge and perception as a world that positively is, but this world posited as superseded, or as in truth an inner world."
"The Hindus, for example, place the highest value on mere persistence in the knowledge of one's simple identity with oneself, on remaining within this empty space of one's inwardness like colourless light in pure intuition, and on renouncing every activity of life, every end, and every representation Vorstelltmg."
"Being is what makes the beginning here; it is presented indeed as originating through mediation, but a mediation which at the same time"
"The Stoic asserted that virtue is the whole highest good and happiness is only the consciousness of the possession of this virtue as belonging to the subject's state."
"This vanity of all reality and every definite N'otion, vanity which knows itself to be such, is the double reflection. .)"
"The Principle of the formal Purposiveness of Nature is a transcendental Principle of Judgement"
"The second determination of the concept is particularity."
"Or 'conscious': bewu. erinnern."
"The element of the ordinate to continue with this instance of variable magnitudes is not in the difference between one ordinate and another ordinate, but is rather the difference itself, or the qualitative determination of the magnitude of the ordinate as against the element of the abscissa; the principle of one variable magnitude as against that of another is in the relation of the one to the other."
"The canon ofpure reason"
"earlier and later in this paragraph."
"the supreme life principle of all morality in human beings."
"But superficial philosophy leads automatically, as far as the ethical world and right and duty in general are concerned, to those principles which constitute super ficiality in this sphere, namely the principles of the Sophists as we find them so clearly described by Plato."
"But whereas it would be impossible for society to leave a crime unpunished since the crime would then be posited as right the fact that society is sure of itself means that crime, in comparison, is always of a purely individual character, an unstable and isolated phenomenon."
"every human being is a means for the realization of the moral law."
"In its external relations, the former is powerful and active, the latter passive and subjective."
"Conscience is itself the judge of all convictions and acknowledges no higher judge above itself."
"Abstraction, by holding fast to the self subsistence of the extremes, posits this unity opposite them, as a determinateness with just as fixed an existence of its own, thus grasping it more as a non unity than as a unity."
"In such a case every honorable person could then in good conscience endeavor to overthrow this makeshift state entirely, but only if he has ascertained the common will."
"This also further clarifies the expression employed above, 'the I posits itself as self sufficient.'"
"That is, their determination has being in and for itself and issues from the nature of the thing Sache."
"the other the State power the first being the feminine and the second the masculine character similarly, now, the previously multiform circle of gods with its fluctuating characteristics confines itself to these powers which are thereby brought closer to genuine individuality."
"Now the whole distinction which we draw between the merely possible and the actual rests upon the fact that possibility signifies the position of the representation of a thing relatively to our concept, and, in general, to our capacity of thinking, whereas actuality signifies the positing of the thing in its intrinsic existence apart from this concept Accordingly the distinction of possible from actual things is one that is merely valid subjectively for human understanding."
"Becoming has for its determinations, first, abstract being and nothing; as alteration, it has existence, something and other; now as infinite, it has finite and infinite, these two themselves as in becoming."
"Yet the human being, who is otherwise acquainted with the whole of nature solely through sense, knowso himself also through pure apperception, and indeed in actions and inner determinations which cannot be accounted at all"
"Within the subject, this liberation is the hard work of opposing mere subjectivity of conduct, of opposing the immediacy of desire as well as the subjective vanity of feeling Empfindung and the arbitrariness of caprice."
"Einze/lzeit eg whether a contract etc. has been made, whether an offence has been committed and who the culprit is, and in cri zal law, whether the substantial, criminal character of the deed was determined by premeditation (see Remarks to I Ig); and secondly, the subsumption of the case under the law of the restoration of right, which, in criminal cases, includes the punishment."
"The sophistry of perception seeks to save these moments from their contradiction, and it seeks to lay hold on the truth, by distinguishing between the aspe.cts, by sticking to the 'Also' and to the 'in sofar and finally, by distinguishing the 'unessential' aspect from an 'essence' which is opposed to it."
"Ethical disposition consists just in sticking steadfastly to what is right, and abstaining from all attempts to move or shake it, or derive it."
"Through this distinction into what is essential and what is unessential, the Notion rises above the dispersion of the sensuous, and cognition thus makes it clear that it is just as essentially concerned with its own self as with things."
"Now the structure of our reason is such that we necessarily refer natural ends to an intelligent world cause."
"This in itself, consequently, as negative reference to its limit (which is also distinguished from it), as negative reference to itself as restriction, is the ought."
"Those who 'seek the Lord' and assure themselves, in their uneducated opinion, that they possess everything immediately instead of undertaking the work of raising their subjectivity to cognition of the truth and knowledge of objec tive right and duty, can produce nothing but folly, outrage, and the destruction of all ethical relations."
"similar triangles, the arc that forms the third side of a triangle to the two increments of the triangle (once rightly called characteristic) is regarded as a straight line, as part of the tangent and therefore as the one increment which reaches the tangent."
"We thus cognize practical freedom through experience, as one of the natural causes, namely a causality of reason in the determination of the will, whereas transcendental freedom requires an independence of this reason itself (with regard to its causality for initiating a series of appearances) from all determining causes of the world of the senses, and to this extent seems to be con trary to the law of nature, thus to all possible experience, and so re mains a problem."
"The latter attains its right of being conscious of itself in the other only in so far as the Marriage is essentially ate exclusive other is present in this identity as a person, ie as atomic individuality."
"In all this the concept remains in pure self identity; but this immediate immanent reflection equally has the determination of objective immediacy; that which for the concept is its own determination, is equally a being, for it is the first negation of the presupposition."
"But since the reflection of the moments of the concept into themselves which is singularity is not as yet contained in this reality, and since the object, in so far as it is in cognition, is consequently not as yet determined as subjective, it is cognition which, on the contrary, is subjective and has an external beginning; that is to say, because of its external beginning in a singular it is subjective."
"But the other aspect of self conscious individ.ality, the aspect of itsouterexi tence, is being ju,a inciepel)dent and subject, or qua a 'thing', viz."
"For that this should be possible, in deed that such a system should not be too great in scope for us to hope to be able entirely to complete it, can be assessed in advance from the fact that our object is not the nature of things, which is inexhaustible, but the understanding, which judges about the nature things, and this in turn only in regard to its a priori cognition, the supply of which, since we do not need to search for it externally, cannot remain hidden from us, and in all likelihood is small enough to be completely recorded, its worth or worthlessness assessed, and subjected to a correct appraisal."
"Or, possibly, 'in which reason as such can be used purposively':"
"by prosyllogisms by episyllogisms contain the totality of the condition, assuming that we could never suc ceed in grasping it; and the whole series must be unconditionally true if the conditioned, which is regarded as a consequence arising from it, is supposed to count as true."
"But this side is already in. .)"
"No element, I say, is sufficient unto itself or self"
"So much has healthy common sense lost respect for the school which still holds on to such laws of truth and still busies itself with them, that it ridicules the school and regards as insufferable anyone who believes that in following such laws one actually says anything at all: the plant is a plant; science is science; and so on in infinitum."
"But in these moments it shines; the moments are, therefore, themselves determinations reflected into themselves."
"(This is the usual situation of a human being who is merely being policed, that is, of a human being who is still on the path to culture, such as the exhausted voluptuary, the avaricious person, or the person consumed by vanity: all of these pursue a purely imaginary enjoyment, for the sake of which they sacrifice true enjoyment)."
"old fa sh io ned with its explanations, divisions,"
"But this existent unchangeable essence is the expression of the very individuality which seems opposed to it; the laws proclaim what each individual is and does; the individual knows' them not only as his universal objective thinghood, but equally knows himselfin them, or knows them as particulariz.ed in his own individuality, and in each of his fellow citizens."
"Dther utterly unimportant circumstance."
"(In romantic tragedy, this determination undergoes a further modification.)"
"This content is the mark that necessity impressed upon them by letting them go free as absolutely actual for in its determination"
"Without here drawing on what has been said above, I want only to note the delusi that takes place in this."
"Instead of dwelling in this world's presence, men looked beyond it, following this thread to an other worldly presence, so to speak."
"There is no possibility of removing the con<U+FB02>ict of the above principles, which underlie every judgement of taste (and which are only the two peculiarities of the judgement of taste previously set out in the Dialectic of Aesthetic Judgement Analytic) except by showing that the concept to which the object is referred in a judgement of this kind is not taken in the same sense in both maxims of the aesthetic judgement; that this double sense, or point of view, in our judging, is necessary for our power of transcendental judgement; and that nevertheless the false appearance arising from the confusion of one with the other is a natural illusion, and so unavoidable."
"If cinnabar were now red, now black, now light, now heavy, if a human being were now changed into this animal shape, now into that one,"
"Jacobi's result is that the inadequacy is due instead to the method and the whole nature of cognition itself that only grasps a concatenation of conditions and dependency and therefore proves itself inadequate to what exists in and for itself, to what is absolutely true."
"On the fact of reason, see below, Ak., incl."
"To this extent, the evil in human beings has its ground in freedom."
"One may regard suicide in the first instance as an act of bravery, albeit an inferior bravery of tailors and maidservants."
"One should not imagine that kindness alone is sufficient for this purpose; for it is precisely the imme ate will which acts according to immediate fancies and desires rather than reasons and representations Vorstell lgetl."
"The distinguishing and characteristic feature of the learned public is absolute freedom and independence of thinking."
"Only in society does it occur to him to be not merely a human being, but a human being refined in his own way ("
"For the latter presupposes that although something has not happened, it nevertheless ought to have happened, and its cause in appearance was thus not so determining that there is not a causality in our power of choice such that, independently of those natural causes and even op posed to their power and influence, it might produce something deter mined in the temporal order in accord with empirical laws, and hence begin a series of occurrences entirely from itself."
"In such a natural product as this every part is thought as owing its presence to the agency of all the remaining parts, and also as existing for the sake of the others and of the whole, that is as an instrument, or organ."
"their right for itself (within the system of the family and of civil society), and also that they should, on the one hand, pass over of their own accord into the interest of the universal, and on the other, knowingly and willingly acknowledge this universal interest even as their own sub stantial spirit, and actively pursue it as their ultimate end."
"Dot a very bad reason in this casein order to confine this existence to the skull."
"The mistake is committed by the assumed interlocutor (that is, our ordinary consciousness), and that is of assuming a quantity to be only an indifferent limit, that is, of taking it in the narrowly defined sense of a quantity."
"Were this to happen the continuation of this state would be an instance of unjust tyranny and oppression; the makeshift state would then collapse by itself, and a more rational constitution would take its place."
"Our inference was as follows: it is absolutely commanded of me to promote the morality of every individual."
"Inasmuch as the distinction is momentarily assumed and we speak of a being foritself, it is this very being for itself, as the sublated being of otherness, that refers itself to itself as to the sublated other, is therefore for one; in its other it refers itself only to itself."
"From this it follows already that the above psychological proposition is at least still very uncertain if translated thus: we desire nothing except on account of our well being or woe; whereas it is indubitably certain and at the same time quite clearly expressed if one renders it thus: according to reason's instruction we will nothing except insofar as we consider it to be good or evil."
"It is not merely that the representations of outer sense make up the proper material with which we occupy our mind, but also the time in which we place these representations, which itself precedes the consciousness of them in experience and grounds the way in which we place them in mind as a formal condition, already contains relations of succession, of simultaneity, and of that which is simultaneous with succession (of that which persists)."
"If this activity is posited, then the cognition of it is also posited immediately; and if this cognition is posited with respect to its form, as a feeling then the activity itself is posited."
"For it is only as thus pertaining that the representation is objective, and it is this alone that gives it a universal point of reference with which the power of representation of everyone is obliged to harmonize."
"This demands two different things: the continuation of absolute freedom and the inviolability of the body, that is, that nothing should be able to exercise a direct influence on the body by means of physical force, and the continuation of one's free influence upon the entire sensible world."
"lor Leclftres on Philosophy of World History (H. Nisbet's transl. ."
"The Idea, which is of cour true enough on its own acc.o.unt, remains in effect always in its primitive condition, if its development io volves nothing more than this sort of repetition of the same for mula."
"Let us now assume, however, that the concept of such a rule imposes itself on the intellect,.e., that the intellect is, under a certain condition, required to think a certain rule, and only this rule, to be the rule governing its own free determinations."
"the dif.ference is eliminated."
"Measure is a relation, not relation in general but specifically of quality and quantity to each other; the categories dealt with by Kant under relation will come up elsewhere in their proper place."
"For the principle, while it is only subjective, being yet assumed as subjectively universal (a necessary idea for everyone), could, in what concerns the consensus of different judging subjects, demand universal assent like an objective principle, provided we were assured of our subsumption under it being correct."
"In point of fact, however, Force is the unconditioned universal which is equally in its own self what it isfor an other; or which contains the difference in its own self for difference is nothing else than being for another."
"The fourth paralogism of the ideality (of outer relation).b That whose existence can be inferred only as a cause of given perceptions has only a doubtful existence: Now all outer appearances are of this kind: their existence cannot be immediately perceived, but can be inferred only as the cause of given perceptions: Thus the existence of all objects of outer sense is doubtful."
"The universal must be given in the particular."
"Thus the purpose, expressed as the whole with the consciousness of its moments, is that the fulfilled duty is just as much a moral action as a.realized individuality, and that.ature, the aspect of individuality in contrast to the abstract purpose, is Qne with this purpose."
"The Science of Knowledge, pp."
"Consciousness does indeed destroy the content as an alien immediat;y Sein when it thinks it; but the Notion is a determinate Notion, and this determinateness of the Notion is the alien elementwhich it has within it."
"If I may express myself in this way, one could say that the pure drive stands out more sharply in consciousness because it is not based on mere feeling but on an intuition."
"Therefore it is also necessarily combined with the existence of the things outside me, as the condition of time determination;.e."
"And if we admit that the impulse to society is natural to mankind, and that the suitability for and the propensity towards it, ie sociability, is a property essential to the requirements of human beings as creatures intended for society, and one, therefore, that belongs to humanity, it is inevitable that we should also look upon taste in the light of a faculty for judging whatever enables us to communicate even our feeling to everyone else, and hence as a means of promoting that upon which the natural inclination of everyone is set."
"Therefore they leave no transcendental freedom, which must be thought as independence from everything empirical and thus from nature as such, whether this nature is regarded as an object of inner sense merely in time, or also of outer sense in both space and time."
"The singular is subsumed under the particular and the particular under the universal; therefore, the singular is also subsumed under the universal."
"Now religion, as already remarked, has the truth as its universal object Gegellstami but as a giVell content whose basic determinations have not been recognized in terms of concepts and thought."
"then I cannot say with the same meaningC"
"Now this acting subject, in its intelligible character, would not stand under any conditions of time, for time is only the condition of appearances but not of things in themselves."
"only are, in being in themselves their own opposite, and in finding their rest in the whole."
"There are here two immediate, or externally contingent concrete existences, of which in the categorical judgment there is at first only one, the subject; but since one is external Judgment to the other, this other is immediately also external with respect to the first."
"In this case it chooses a certain notation for all construction of magnitudes in general (numbers), as well as addition, subtraction, extraction of roots, etc./ and, after it has also designated the general concept of quantities in accordance with their different relations,' it then exhibits all the pro cedures through which magnitude is generated and altered in accordance with certain rules in intuition"
"a reality, this stems from the action itself and results from it."
"The coming forth into concrete existence is therefore so immediate, that it is mediated only by the disappearing of the mediation."
"For the distinction between 'immanent' and 'transcendent' (below), see the Critique of Pure Reason,"
"Herzensaufwallungen."
"We may begin by remarking that the method of differential calculus has all the markings of not having been invented and developed for its own sake."
"the opposite of the existence Dasein of this personality."
"of the weakness of the centripetal force into the predominating strength of the centrifugal force, and of the converse in perihelion, implies for one thing our earlier result, namely that each of the two sides of the inverse relation is in it the whole inverse relation."
"The reciprocal action of things"
"No other art or science is treated with this ultimate degree of contempt, namely the assumption that one can take possession of it outright."
"Since purpose is the concept itself in its concrete existence, it may seem strange that a cognition of objects based on their concept rather appears as an unjustified trespass into a heterogeneous element, whereas mechanism, for which the determinateness of an object is posited in it externally and by an other, is accepted as a more immanent view of things than teleology."
"But then it is not only the case that I do not even know of any conditions under which this logical preeminence can be attributed to any sort of thing; it is also the case that absolutely nothing further is to be made of it, and not even the least consequence is to be drawn from it, because by its means no object whatever of the use of this concept is determined, and one therefore does not even know whether the latter means anything at all."
"Similarly, Enlighten ment finds it foolish that the individual absolves itself of its quality of being absolutely individual, excluding all others and of possessing property ofits own, by itself giving up its property; for thereby it shows in truth that it is not in earnest with this isolation of itself, hut is raised above the natural necessity of isolating itself, and."
"Now, I may even be conscious of an equal degree of righteousness in myself, and yet the respect remains."
"Anyway, a universal standard is meant for use only as an external comparison of things, and in this superficial sense of universal standard it is quite a matter of indifference what is used for the purpose."
"The other part of the proof which concerns space also relies on time."
"For it has a presupposition from which it begins; it takes its start from the contingent."
"It is the parents' duty to preserve their child; it is also their duty to protect and encourage the child's freedom."
"This system of drives and feelings is thus to be thought of as nature; and the nature in question is to be thought of as our nature, inasmuch as consciousness of it imposes itself on us, and the substance in which this system is located is at the same time supposed to be the substance that thinks and wills freely, which we posit as ourselves."
"In the course of its experience which we are now to consider, this abstract object will enrich itself for the 'I' and undergo the unfolding which we have seen in the sphere of Life."
"In this, quantum has the reality which is adequate to its concept"
"Through mere con cepts, of course, I cannot think of something external without anything"
"Nor can we derive a more specific determination or a more positive content for the beginning of philosophy from the fact that it is such a beginning."
"It is only in recent times that there has been a new awareness of the difficulty of finding a beginning in philosophy, and the reason for this difficulty, and so also the possibility of resolving it, have been discussed in a variety of ways."
"they can be in conflict; but if one considers them merely as maxims, then it is not a true conflict, but it is merely a dif ferent interest of reason that causes a divorce between ways of think ing.g Reason has in fact only a single unifiedh interest, and the conflict between its maxims is only a variation and a reciprocal limitation of the methods satisfying this interest."
"If the whole extent of the use of a thing were mine, but the abstract ownership were supposed to be someone else's, the thing as mine would be wholly penetrated by my will (see the previous paragraph and,"
"I have brought the moment of quality first under review, because this is what the aesthetic judgement on the beautiful looks to in the first instance."
"The apodictic judgment The subject of the apodictic judgment ('the house, as so and so constituted, is good,' 'the action, as so and so constituted, is right')"
"But the determination of the species of calculation itself is independent of this opposition."
"(E. That all principles and synthetic a priori propositions in general do not go further than objects of experience, and that if we would still go beyond them then no intuition can correspond to them."
"Science sets forth this formative process in all its detail and necessity, exposing the mature configuration of everything which has already been reduced to a moment and property of Spirit."
"For the Notion gives itthisexplicitcharacter, viz."
"Being at one with the subject matter, the concept is submerged into it; its differences are objective determinations of existence in which it is itself again the inner."
"What has been said so far is sufficient to explain what it means to posit something as essential: it means to posit it as necessary and as contained in and inseparable from the concept in question, as something already posited along with the concept and predestined."
"The pure understanding separates itself completely not only from everything empirical, but even from all sensibility."
"Contradiction immediately raises its head because limit, as an internally reflected negation of something, ideally holds in it the moments of something and other, and"
"depends upon my will, which therefore cannot appeal to the fact that the drive is grounded in nature."
"Once in recent times it even seemed as though an end would be put to all these controversies, and the lawfulnesso of all the competing claims would be completely decided, through a certain physiology of .the human understanding (by the famous Locke); but it turned out that although the birth of the purported queen was traced to the rabble of common experience and her pretensions would therefore have been rightly rendered suspicious, nevertheless she still asserted her claims, because in fact this genealogy was attributed to her falsely"
"In the sphere of being, existence was the being that had negation in it, and being was the immediate ground and element of this negation which was, therefore, itself immediate negation."
"What alone has importance is the difference posited by thought, or the dif;.ference which from the very first is not distinct from myself."
"But the one that occupies Concrete existence the interstices of the other is itself porous; conversely, therefore, the other concretely exists in its pores; and this applies not just to this second stuff, but to a third also, a tenth, and so forth."
"The law, as a specific law, has a contingent content; this means here that it is the law of a single consciousness and has an arbitrary content."
"According to the order of these properties, he is thus also the holy legislator (and creator), the benign governorf (and preserver), and the just judge three properties that contain within themselves everything by which God becomes the object of religion, and commensurately with which the metaphysical perfections add themselves on their own in reason."
"Accordingly, though the empirical exposition of aesthetic judgements may be a first step towards accumulating the material for a higher investigation, yet a transcendental examination of this faculty is possible, and forms an essential part of the critique of taste."
"I is absolute activity and nothing but activity; but activity, taken objectively, is drive."
"But we should note that it is the technic of nature and not that of the human powers of representation that we call art (in the proper sense of the word) with respect to which we are here investigating purposiveness as a regulative concept of the power of judgement."
"Like the pure drive, it is absolute; it demands something purely and simply, for no end outside of itself."
"Thus the being of the Eleatics or the Spinozistic substance are only the abstract negation of all determinateness, without ideality being posited in them in the case of Spinoza, as it will be further mentioned below, infinity is only the absolute affirmation of a thing, consequently only the unmoved unity; substance does not therefore ever attain the determination of being for itself,"
"knowing is, through the deed, its own affair, each is responsible for the guilt which destroys it."
"The fact that, in respect of all our ideas of the supersensible, reason is restricted to the conditions of its practical employment, is of obvious use in connexion with the idea of God."
"You require a being not a being without any ground, for such a thing cannot be thought of at all, but one whose ground lies not in some other being, but in something else."
"But in parallelograms of equal height and base, only this last determinateness is an external limit; the height on which the second main Cf."
"That so called philosophy which ascribes reality in the sense of self sufficiency and genuine being for and in itself to immediate individual things Dingm to the non personal realm, as well as that philosophy which assures us that spirit cannot recognize truth or know what the thing in itselfis/ is immediately refuted by the attitude of the free will towards these things DiTzge."
"In the 'matter in hand', then, in which the interfusion of individuality and objectivity has itselfhecome objective, selfconsciousness has come into possession"
"What is pertinent here is only this,"
"The proof of this is contained in the very concept of beneficence: everyone ought to have some property, this is the goal of beneficence."
"In animate things, This is a strange sentence."
"But this central individual is at first only a middle term that as yet has no true extremes; as the negative unity of the total concept it dirempts itself rather into such extremes."
"Withdrawn from existence only into itself, it has not there achieved its consummation as absolute negation of that existence."
"However, this side is not as much the positive exposition of the absolute as it is rather the exposition of the determinations, namely that these have the absolute for their abyss, but also for their ground, or that that which imparts subsistence to them, to their reflective shine, is the absolute itself."
"Alternating determination of finite and infinite The infinite is; in this immediacy it is at the same time the negation of an other, of the finite."
"This last is for itself but also, as indifferent limit, equally outside itself."
"However, I was not able to realize this thought,.e., to convert it into cognition of a being acting in this way, not even as regards merely its possibility."
"The property of the thing is, for its part, the negativity of reflection, by virtue of which concrete existence in general is a concrete existent and, as simple self identity, is thing in itself."
"In this respect, the will gives itself its object absolutely."
"However, they are not yet posited as concrete somethings; in standing in the place of the other, each is thereby posited in its own determination and at the same time, although only externally into that of the other."
"The ethical realm is in this way in its enduring existence an immaculate world, a world unsullied by any internal dissension."
"And so it is nothing more than a being, or concrete existence in general."
"ing and consider that the thing in its totality."
"However, while we are speaking here about the totality of conditions and the unconditioned, as the common title of all concepts of reason, we once again run up against an expression with which we cannot dispense and at the same time cannot safely use because of an ambiguity it has ac quired through long misuse."
"The entire manifold contained in the perception of our sensible efficacy has now been derived from the laws of consciousness, which is what was demanded."
"But the categorical judgment is itself the first or the immediate judgment of necessity; consequently, the determinateness of the subject, by virtue of which the latter is a singular as contrasted to the genus or the species, belongs to the immediacy of external concrete existence."
"Differenz (see the explanation of the term in the Introduction)."
"In every judgment one can call the given concepts logical matter (for judgment), their relation (by means of the copula)"
"As positive, it is indeed a something which is determined with reference to an otherness, but in such a way that its nature is not to be something posited; it is the immanent reflection that negates otherness."
"I must have a concept of space if. ."
"That this resolution of the famous argument into a paralogism is entirely correct shows itself clearly if one reviews in this connection the general remark to the systematic representation of the principlesb and the section on noumena, where it was proved that the concept of a thing that can exist for itself as subject but not as a mere predicate car ries with it no objective reality at all,.e., that one cannot know whether it applies to any object, since one has no insight into the possibility of such a way of existing, and consequently that it yields absolutely no cognition."
"Both the proofs previously cited were attempted transcendentally,.e."
"The line is spo a ken by Hecuba to Priam as the aged king of Troy arms himself against the Greeks in the final death throes of his city."
"Object The text common to the two editions resumes here,"
"Further, having regard to the above mentioned intelligible principle of the possibility of a nature in general, we may even assume that nature is possible in all respects on both kinds of law, the physical laws and those of final causes, as universally consonant laws, although we are quite unable to see how this is so."
", property must also have the determination of being this specific entity, of being mine."
"It is rather the essential content of appearance which has two sides: first, to be in the form of positedness or external immediacy; second, to be positedness as self identical."
"it containsin pure knowledge itself, for this is simple immediacy, which is as much being and existence as it is essence; the former, negative thought, the latter, positive thought itself."
"Kant seems to have thought that he had said 'human beings/ ganz und gar."
"The first three faculties are first brought into union by means of the fourth."
"A greater refinement of moral ideas, which was made necessary by the extremely pure moral law of our religion, made reason attend more sharply to its object by means of the interest that it required reason to take in this object, and, without a contribution from either more ample acquaintance with nature or correct and reliable transcendental insights (which have been lacking at all times), produced a concept of the divine being that we now hold to be correct, not because speculative reason convinces us of its correctness but because it is Princip Kenntnis Erkenntnis Principien a"
"What still lies ahead for consciousness is the experience of what Spirit is this absolute substance which is the unity of the different independent self consciousnesses which in their opposition, enjoy perfect freedom and independence: 'r that is 'We' and 'We'"
"ie the one most obvious to superficial thinking; for since it is the concerns and interests of the people that the monarch must look after, it can be argued that the people must also be left to choose whom they wish to entrust their welfare to, and that it is from this trust alone that the right to rule arises."
"The cause is this: Although both are appear ances, the appearance before outer sense has something standing and abiding in it, which supplies a substratum grounding the transitory de terminations, and thus also a synthetic concept, namely that of space and of an appearance in it; whereas time, which is the only form of our inner intuition, has in it nothing abiding, and hence gives cognition only of a change of determinations, but not of the determinable object."
"This syllogism, as the first and therefore immediate syllogism of necessity, comes in the first instance under the schema of the formal syllogism,."
"Fichte explicitly criticized Schmid's intelligible fatalism in one of his earliest published writings, his review of Leonhard Creuzer's Skeptische Betrachtungen ber die Freiheit des Willens (Skeptical Reflections on the Freedom of the Will), ); English trans."
"It is the other, therefore, not of a one to which it is indifferent; in that case it would not be an other, nor a reference or relation."
"But since in respect to causality we need an ultimate and supreme being, what hinders us from at the same time positing in it a degree of perfection exceeding everything else that is possible?"
"The constitution must be in and for itself the firm and recognized ground on which the legislative power is based, so that it does not first have to be constructed."
"possesses them in their 'own absolute nature."
"t, t<U+FFFD> res<U+FFFD> ZureclzllIwg"
"Do not think in a certain way in order thereby to discover precisely this or that to be your duty for"
"Kant's term here is Chemist (in place of the contemporary Chemiker); below it is Scheidek nstler, literally, 'separation artist.'"
"For it will be shown that although ex perience has given the occasion for them, it is nevertheless merely the transcendental concept of reason that it has set forth for itself that di rects these strivings and holds up the target in all such attempts."
"He of course adds that they are also not opposed to the views of corpuscular theory,"
"Every birth and every death, far from being a Quantum."
"I am thus entirely on the level of semblance, and while my particularity remains my determining principle that is, my end"
"Before it can in fact be Self and Spirit"
"As was noted earlier, the perception of my causality, qua perception, necessarily occurs in a moment of time."
"The sides themselves thus continue into each other also according to their qualitative determinations; each of the qualities relates itself in the other to itself and is present in each of the two sides, only in a different quantum."
"But, now, is this proof in a position to give us that concept of a supreme or independent, intelligent being, when further understood as that of a God, that is an author of a world subject to moral laws, and so as, therefore, to be sufficiently definite for the idea of a final end of the existence of the world?"
"But once fulfilled, set in the medium of being, this identity is no longer knowing, no longer this process of differentiation in which its differences are at the same time immediately superseded; on the contrary, in being, the difference is established as an enduring difference, and the action is a specific action, not identical with the element ofeveryone's self consciousness, and therefore not necessarily acknowledged."
"is the possibility of determining myself to this or to something else, of choosing between these determinations which the 'I' must in this respect regard as external."
"Even if spe culative truths are affirmed of this subject, their content lacks the immanent Notion, because it is present merely in the form of a passive subject, with the result that such truths readily assume the form of mere edification."
"But it is difficult to see just where the distinction would lie, for a determination that belongs to the concept of a fact must in truth be contained in it."
"It does not comprehend the diversity of philosophical systems as the progressive unfolding of truth, but rather sees in it simple disagreements."
"Beauty is the form of purposiveness in an object, so far as this is perceived in it apart from the representation of an end."
"In short, the aim of the drive, when apprehended in its totality, is the absolute self sufficiency of the I as such."
"Remark The infinite in the usual sense of the bad infinite and the progression to infinity, such as the ought, are the expression of a contradiction that pretends to be itself a solution and an ultimate."
"injunction: 'Do with repugnance what duty commandsY"
"His power of choice has an empirical character, which is the (empirical) cause of all his actions."
"One may indeed bring in material from outside and thereby arrive at particular duties, but it is imposs ible to make the transition to the determination of particular duties from the above determination of duty as absence of contradiction, as formal correspondence with itself, which is no different from the specification of abstract indeternlinacy; and even if such a particular content for action is taken into con sideration, there is no criterion within that principle for deciding whether or not this content is a duty."
"How can we resolve this contradiction?"
"The self consciousness knows how to discover a positive aspect in its own end (see concrete ); for this end, as part of <U+FFFD>n actual action, necessarily has a positive aspect."
"So in order to represent an objective purposiveness in a thing we must first have a concept of what sort of a thing it is to be."
"In this way we would have only a play of representations that would not be related to any objecta at all,.e., by means of our perception no appearance would be distinguished from any other as far as the temporal relation is concerned, since the succession in the apprehending is always the same, and there is therefore nothing in the appearance that determines it so that a certain sequence is thereby made necessary as objective."
"Since we have posited the system of our natural drives as a product of nature and as a part of nature, we necessarily must also posit it as matter."
"There is no difficulty in answer ing."
"We have already encountered examples of this kind of determination of our objects in another science, the doctrine of right."
"This in itself or this reality is, however, a universal pure and simple, the pure abstraction of reality."
"All growth of empirical cognitions and every advance in perception is nothing but an amplification of the determination of inner sense,.e."
"I find myself only as willing.'"
"For a personal worth, which man can only give to himself, is presupposed by reason, as the sole condition upon which he and his existence can be a final end."
"The contingent character of almsgiving and charitable donations (e.g. for burning lamps before the images of saints, etc.)"
"But since the decision between good and evil is made to depend upon many good reasons, including those authorities already referred to despite the fact that these reasons are so numerous and discordant it is also apparent that it is not this objectivity of the thing Sache but subjeaivity, which is the decisive factor."
"Kant is primarily concerned to banish the ordinary mechanistic ways of representation that stop at the one determination of impenetrability, of existents that subsist point like for themselves, and reduce to something external the opposite determination, the internal connection of matter or of a plurality of matters that are in turn regarded as particular ones."
"This does not involve the mediation of my opinion <U+FFFD>ception; see, but runs counter to it."
"Johann Christian Dieterich, reprinted, Brussels: Culture et Civilisation,."
"Therefore there remains only one way out of the apparent antinomy lying before us: since, namely, both the conflicting propositions can be true at the same time in a different relation in such a way that all things in the world of sense are completely contingent, hence having always only an empirically conditioned existence, there nevertheless occurs a non empirical condition of the entire series,.e., an unconditionally necessary being."
"But the closest example of the reduction of an immanent measure to a merely externally determined magnitude is motion."
"But when this sensibility is so taken by itself and fixed and, in addition, is bound up, with quantitative determinations and, qua greater or less sensibility, is opposed to a greater or less irritability, each is wholly in the element of sense and is reduced to the ordinary form of a property; what connects them is not the Notion but, on the contrary, a quantitative antithesis, which becomes a difference lacking any thought con. tent."
"For, the inclinations vary, grow with the indulgence that one allows them, and always leave behind an even greater void than one had meant to fill."
"On the contrary it is something that is grounded in reason (though only in relation to its practical employment), and adequately so in this regard."
"Consequently, it also holds its moments as sublated and unseparated in itself; as is always the case in a concept, the difference in the ratio is such that each of its moments is itself the unity of the qualitative and the quantitative moment."
"The absolute criterion for the correctness of our conviction concerning duty, which is what we have been seeking, would therefore be a feeling of truth and certainty."
"This thoroughness has the added advantage of guaranteeing that the labor of thinking is reduced to a minimum; for it has before it, enclosed in this germ, the entire development and reckons that it has settled the whole business when it has disposed of the beginning, the easiest matter to dispatch because it is the simplest, the simple itself; it is the trifling labor required for this that really recommends this 'thoroughness' which is so satisfied with itself."
"Still in the same place, when it is said that for the dynamic viewpoint the phenomena of determinate proportions were quite an unforeseen event, the answer would be that this is only an external, historical circumstance, were it not that Richter's stoicheiometric series were already known to Berthollet from Fischer's summary and were cited in the first edition of this Log where the nullity of the categories on which the old as well as the would be new corpuscular theory rest is demonstrated."
"If it is the first, then this relation is only empirical, and the representation is never possible a priori."
"To this extent purpose still has a truly extra mundane concrete existence to the extent, namely, that this objectivity stands opposed to it, just as the latter, as a mechanical and chemical whole still not determined and not pervaded by purpose, stands on its side opposed to it."
"But the human being, as wholly indeterminate, stands above his drives and can determine and posit them as his own."
"There is a continuum of forms."
"so distinctive a product of the individual artist that any copy of it is essentially the product of the intellectual geistiget/ and technical skill of the copyist."
"The Family, as the unconscious, still inner Notion of the ethical order stands opposed to its actual, self conscious existence; as the element of the nation's actual existence, it stands opposed to the nation itself; as the immediate being of the ethical order, it stands over against that order which shapes and maintains itself by working for the universal; the Penates stand opposed to the universal Spirit."
"But the negation of the negation is the positive."
"The entire amazement and even striving toward similarity with this character here rests entirely on the moral principle's purity, which can be presented as quite obvious only by removing from the incentives of the action everything that human beings might class with happiness."
"Even if one never has such an experience when one thinks of one's own actions, because one is always driven by passions and desires and thus never really becomes aware of one's own freedom, one will still find this principle within oneself when one judges those actions of others that one thinks of as free."
"alget: 'Uprightness is praised and shivers with cold.'"
"But even here we could not plead a need of reason if there did not lie before us a problematic but yet unavoidable concept of reason, viz., that of an absolutely necessary being."
"However, is any other solution that has been attempted, or that may be attempted, indeed easier and more graspable?"
"the End, and likewise this End as a Thing."
"in its:elf; whatever is related to knowledge or knowing is also distin."
"By virtue of this repletion of the copula, the judgment has become syllogism."
"A A proves a reality in space, which space, though in itself it is only a mere form of representations, nevertheless has objective reality in regard to all outer appearances (which are also nothing but mere representations); and it is likewise sufficient to refute empirical idealism that with out perception even fictions and dreams are not possible, so our outer senses, as regards the data from which experience can arise, have actual corresponding objects in space."
"But in this objectivity the determinateness is posited as immediate totality, as external whole."
"The second question to which we are led by the preceding is the following: what is the source of that inner shame regarding oneself that evinces itself even more in the case of a lie than in that of any other unconscionable wrongdoing?"
"The subject matter of the philosophical science ofright is"
"One can, to be sure, guide human beings in their investigations; one can provide them with the premises for an adjudication that they are supposed to make, and they might accept these premises provisionally, on the bases of authority."
"Consequently the unity of consciousness is that which alone con stitutes the relation of representations to an object, thus their objective validity, and consequently is that which makes them into cognitions and on which even the possibility of the understanding rests."
"All such thinking on my part would upset that relation, since, if I liked, I could in fact just as well make the opposite conform to my indeterminate tautological knowledge and make that the law."
"Of the two propositions we drew, the first, 'the universal is singular,' expresses the judgment according to its content, as an isolated determination in the predicate and as the totality of determinations in the subject."
"The concept of a noumenonf is therefore merely a boundary concept, in order to limit the pretension of sensibility, and therefore only of negative use."
"Or ad infinitum: ins Unendliche."
"The I intuits itself purely and simply because it intuits itself."
"Consequently, as the unity of law in a synthesis, which is cognized by us in obedience to a necessary aim (a need of the understanding), though recognized at the same time as contingent, is represented as a purposiveness of objects (here of nature), so judgement, which, in respect of things under possible (yet to be discovered) empirical laws, is merely re<U+FB02>ective, must regard nature in respect of the latter according to a principle of purposiveness for our cognitive faculty, which then finds expression in the above maxims of judgement."
"Through this cautionary remark the critique of the assertions of rea son is very much reduced."
"Third section of ethics in the proper sense of the term: Doctrine of duties in the proper sense of the term Subdivisions of this doctrine"
"The human being is one of the appearances in the world of sense, and to that extent also one of the natural causes"
"Yet, even when looked at from an external point of view, it is evident that each in his own enjoyment provides enjoyment for all, just as in working for himselfhe is at the same time working for all and all are working for him."
"What we derive from our inferences in the deduction is itself an act of thinking; and that which is within us, independent of all inferences, as something primary and immediate: this too is an act of thinking."
"Thus it has been said that there is in fact no such thing as an evil man, for no one wills evil for the sake of evil"
"But this is achieved by the rational concept of our thinking Self that we have given."
"Among the reasons for not doing this is the fact that in the former case it is simply unthinkable that an intellect could create matter, and in the latter case it is not yet conceivable how reason could have any influence on nature, inasmuch as this is precisely what we have to explain here in Part"
"Further, as an individual self, itis only the form of the subject or of real action, a form which is known by it as Jorm."
"Since this, therefore, cannot change in existence, its quantum in nature can also be neither increased nor diminished."
"In order to conceive of right in terms of thought, one must be educated in how to think, and not remain confined to the merely sensuous realm; one must adapt the form of universality to the objects"
"are the way by which it prod."
"Those who resist taking multiplicity as a simple unity and, besides this concept, namely that each of the many is the same as every other, that is to say, that each is one of many (for at issue here"
"First of all we have here to note that a universality which does not rest upon concepts of the object (even though these are only empirical) is in no way logical, but aesthetic, ie does not involve any objective quantity of the judgement, but only one that is subjective."
"The inadequacy of the form of such propositions and judgments is however obvious."
"But if we understand by that an objecth of a non sensible intuition, a Vermogen Object"
"To be sure, still other proofs of this principle,.g., from contingency, have been attempted; but if this is considered clearly, one cannot discover any characteristic of contingency except that of happening,.e., existence which is pre ceded by a not being of the object, and one therefore always comes back to the same ground of proof."
"In the modern analytical form of mechanics, such propositions are advanced simply as the results of calculus, without worrying whether they have by themselves, within them, a real sense, that is, one that would correspond to concrete existence, and without bothering with a proof for it."
"We are thus left with the subjective purposiveness in the representation of an object, exclusive of any end (objective or subjective) consequently the bare form of purposiveness in the representation whereby an object is given to us, so far as we are conscious of it as that which is alone capable of constituting the delight which, apart from any concept, we judge as universally communicable, and so of forming the determining ground of the judgement of taste."
"Not from ex perience."
"But what is purely formal without any reality is a mere figmentof thought, or pure abstraction without that internal division which would be nothing else"
"If (under the aforementioned restriction) we say of an object, without qualification, that it is great, this is not a mathematically determining, but a mere re<U+FB02>ective judgement upon its representation, which is subjectively purposive for a particular employment of our cognitive faculties in the judging of magnitude, and we then always couple with the representation a kind of respect, just as we couple a kind of contempt with what we call absolutely small."
"But once he has arrived at this idea, as he must, then this immediate unity with Spiri, the mere being of hiJ!lself in Spirit, his trust, is lost."
"But before we venture out on this sea, to search through all its breadth and become certain of whether there is anything to hope for in it, it will be useful first to cast yet another glance at the map of the land that we would now leave, and to ask, first, whether we could not be sat isfied with what it contains, or even must be satisfied with it out of ne cessity, if there is no other ground on which we could build; and, second, by what title we occupy even this land, and can hold it securely against all hostile claims."
"Nevertheless, there must somewhere be a source of positive cognitions that belong in thedomain of pure reason, and that perhaps give occasion for errors only through misunderstanding, but that in fact constitute the goal of the strenuous effort of reason."
"The former claim would lay the basis for some kind of idealism, the second for some kind of materialism."
"as worse and more base than is implied by your own nature."
"Now it does not follow at all"
"But the cosmolog ical proof avails itself of this experience only to make a single step, namely to the existence of a necessary being in general."
"In respect of these we judge the unity of nature according to empirical laws, and the possibility of the unity of experience, as a system according to empirical laws, to be contingent."
"However, the knowledge of essence is still firmly established superior to empty knowledge, and pure insight only manifests its own peculiar activity in so far as it opposes itself to faith."
",consdousness; for the universal win is only an actual will in a self, which is a One."
"In this, Spirit knows itself as its object in a natural or immediate shape."
"The concept First, therefore, it is simple self reference; it is only in itself."
"Thus the transcendental idealist is an empirical realist, and grants to matter, as appearance, a reality which need not be inferred, but is im mediately perceived."
"As exerting pressure, the mass appears as a being in itself, a subject, to which there accrues a distinctive intensive magnitude."
"It is true that in teleology we speak of nature as if its purposiveness were a thing of design."
"All of this will be dealt with in more detail in what follows."
"It does not help to prove a proposition by means of it; on account of the abstract determinateness of the middle term which is a quality without concept, there can just as well be other middle terms from which the opposite would follow; even from the same middle term opposite predicates can also be deduced in turn through further middle terms."
"Second, the exposition does not thereby deal with mere externality, and the mode is not only the most external externality."
"The doctor must do something for a sick person who is in danger, but he does not knowa the illness."
"Real ground shows itself to be the self external reflection of ground; its complete mediation is the restoration of its identity with itself."
"Thus, even if the concept appears to have become fragmented in its existence, this is merely a semblance, as is subsequently confirmed when all its details finally return in the concept of the universal."
"Since, now, this disposition itself must admit of being universally communicated, and hence also the feeling of it (in the case of a given representation), while again, the universal communicability of a feeling presupposes a common sense: it follows that our assumption of it is well founded."
"an entity created by reason functioning rationally."
"He defines the task (p. as one of demonstrating the originating or the producing of a synthesis in a pure somewhat, be it consciousness, space or time. '"
"A mechanical mode of representation, a mechanical memory, a habit, a mechanical mode of acting"
"But the integration of th ese two relative totalities into itself, since this self certaimy, melting away for itself in its emptiness, is ltical with the abstract liversality of the good; the identity which is accordingly lcrete of the good and the subjec tive will, the truth of them both, is ethical ljft."
"Contemplation of the world started from the most splendid spectac that could ever be put before human senses and that our understanding could ever bear to pursue in its vast range, and it ended with astrology."
"Just as it is essential for the 'statue to be the work of human hands, so is the a.ctor essential to his mask"
"Only when the imagination in its freedom stirs the understanding, and the understanding apart from concepts sets the imagination into regular play, does the representation communicate itself not as thought, but as an internal feeling of a purposive state of the mind."
"This is a criticism of Kant."
"Effective refutation must infiltrate the opponent's stronghold and meet him on his own ground; there is no point in attacking him outside his territory and claiming jurisdiction where he is not."
"But since sensuousne is itself a moment of the process producing the unity, viz."
"This co.ncealment ceases when the absolute Being qua Spirit is the object of co.nsciousness; for then the object has the form of Self in its relation to consciousness, ie co.nsciousness knows itself immediately in the object, or is manifest to its lf in the object."
"As to the other confirmation of the absolute truth of the principle of identity, this is made to rest on experience in so far as appeal is made The essentialities or the determinations of reflection to the experience of every consciousness; for anyone presented with this proposition, 'A is,' 'a tree is a tree,' immediately grants it and is satisfied that the proposition is self evident and in need of no further justification or demonstration."
"Even as regards the alteration which certain individuals of the organized genera contingently undergo, where we find that the character thus altered is transmitted and taken up into the generative power, we can form no other plausible judgement of it than that it is an occasional development of a purposive capacity originally present in the species with a view to the preservation of the kind."
", if we can just be sufficiently assured that there is no proof of its impossibility, and are now by the moral law, which postulates this freedom compelled and precisely thereby also entitled to das Vortrefflichste."
"Such cognition is possible from the standpoint of ordinary consciousness, and this is sufficient for engendering both a dutiful disposition and dutiful conduct."
"ty of the will as arbitrariness and as the co tingent con<U+FFFD> will may pursue; (y) one sided form in general (see, in so far as willed, whatever its content, is still only a content belonging to the self consciousness, an unaccomplished end."
"In the actual 'doing', however, consciousness behaves as this particular self, as completely individual; it is directed towards reality as such, and has this for its purpose, for it wills to achieve something."
"This external reflection is henceforth a relating of the things inthemselves to one another, their reciprocal mediation as others."
"This Analytic is the analysisa of the entirety of our a priori cognition into the elements of the pure cognition of the understanding."
"It is through awareness of this completely developed object, which presents itself to consciousness as something that immediately is, that consciousness first becomes explicitly a consciousness that comprehends its object ."
"And equally, anyone who has not trodden this path finds this assertion incomprehensible when he hears it in this pure formalthough he does as a matter of fact make the assertion himself in a concrete shape ie the assertion is implicit in his behaviour."
"Nor can the art of surveying (agrimensoria) ever presume the title of a practical geometry or ever be described as a special part of geometry itself, but belongs amongst the scholia of the latter, namely the employment of this science for purposes of commerce."
"Magnitudes of this sort can also be called flowing, since the synthesis (of the productive imagination) in their generation is a progress in time, the continuity of which is customarily designated by the expression flowing elapsing."
"Hence being in itself is, first, negative reference to non existence; it has otherness outside it and is opposed to it; in so far as something is in itself, it is withdrawn from being other and being for other."
"Sensory intuition, however, is equally impossible apart from intellectual intuition."
"to create distinctions within itself, exhibiting itself as a world articulated into its separate spheres."
"Here therefore neither axioms nor intuitions are to be thought of"
"This form is that of the mediation."
"This, however, is the absolute discreteness which is conscious of itself in its pure oneness as absolute, and of the universal as something unreal, which exists only for someone else."
"When the individual, by using his understanding, makes up his mind, and after deliberation chooses what is advantageous for him, this self determination is based on the specific nature of his particular character."
"Reflection is pure mediation in general; ground, the real mediation of essence with itself."
"However, taste is, in the ultimate analysis, a faculty that judges of the rendering of moral ideas in terms of the senses (through the intervention of a certain analogy in our re<U+FB02>ection on both);"
"Whatever crude concepts of religion the old customs, which were left over from the rude state of the nations, may have introduced, these still did not prevent their more enlightened part from dedicating themselves to free investigations of this object, and it was readily understood that there could be no more fundamental and reliable way of pleasing the in visible power who rules the world, in order to be happy at least in another world, than the good conduct life."
"ther, for its part, is merely relative."
"The former sensations imagination can recall and agreeably entertain itself with, while the latter either vanish entirely, or else, if involuntarily repeated by the imagination, are more oppressive to us than agreeable."
"when for example I form an ordinary concept When I do this, I omit the individual determinations and thereby raise my concept to the level of universality."
"However, they cannot combine what they understand as the object of outer sense with the concept of matter, which is nothing but an appear ance, thus in itself a mere representation caused by some external object or other, for then they would be saying that the representations of ex ternal objects (appearances) could not be external causes of representations in our mind; that would be a wholly senseless objection, because it a dem Scheine nach Objecte Vorstellung Chapter I."
"Hence appearances are in the world only conditionally, the world itself is neither conditioned nor bounded in an unconditional way."
"what nevertheless amounted to an inheritance) and even silly excuses (and silliness is equally an inconsistency) in order to preserve the letter of the Twelve Tables, for example by the fiction or pretenceb that a daughter was a son"
"Thus an anatomist is said to 'demonstrate' the human eye when he renders the concept, of which he has previously given a discursive exposition, intuitable by means of the dissection of that organ."
"But although it must be proved, it is called a principle and not a theoremd because it has the special property that it first makes possible its ground of proof, namely experience, and must always be presupposed in this."
"Now there is not the least thing to hinder us from assuming these ideas as objective and hypostatic, except only the cosmological ones, where reason runs up against an antinomy when it tries to bring this about (the psychological and theological ideas contain nothing of that sort at all)."
"Because the physical preservation of the child is imposed exclusively on the parents, they must have the child with them; and thus they alone are the ones who can provide the child with a moral education."
"For the poor, the universal authority Macht takes over the role of the family with regard not only to their immediate deficiencies, but also to the disposition of laziness, viciousness, and the other vices to which their predicament and sense of wrong give rise."
"Also, in respect to things in general, unbounded reality is regarded as the matter of all possibility, but its limitation (negation) as A that form through which One thing is distinguished from another in ac cordance with transcendental concepts."
"for when human beings had not yet fathomed the depths of self consciousness or emerged from the undifferentiated condition of substantial unity to attain being for themselves, they were not yet strong enough to perceive this decision within their own being."
"however, is also negative unity."
"But the conception of a causality of nature following the rule of ends, and still more of such a Being as is utterly incapable of being given to us in experience a Being regarded as the original source of nature while it may no doubt be thought without selfcontradiction, is nevertheless useless for the purpose of dogmatic definitive assertions."
"Repeated observation has convinced me that when this kind of business has been brought to an end, what halfway through it seemed to me at times very precarious in view of extraneous other doctrines I.e., key elements: Momente."
"Now since it is the same absolute identity which is posited as subject and object, there is no qualitative difference.'"
"Something is therefore immediate, self referring existence and at first it has a limit with respect to an other; limit is the non being of the other, not of the something itself; in limit, something marks the boundary of its other."
"A content of consciousness is a duty because it is the content of this kind of consciousness."
"That principle has arisen for us, and therefore the way we take in perception is no longer something that just happens to us like sense certainty; on the contrary, it is logically necessitated."
"Nothing is only nothing."
"Consequently, the thing is also com.<U+FFFD>"
"For the fact that man, when he does exist, makes happiness his own final purpose, affords us no conception of any reason why he should exist at all, or of any worth he himself possesses, for which his existence should be made agreeable to him."
"This problem of the critique of the power of judgement, therefore, is part of the general problem of transcendental philosophy: How are synthetic a priori judgements possible?"
"would be brought to an end very soon."
"The dignity of every human being, his self respect and, along with this, his morality, depends upon his being able to relate his own occupation Gesch ft to the end of reason or, which means the same, to God's end with respect to human beings and on his being able to say, 'what I am doing is God's will.'"
"But externality is in life at the same time as the simple determinateness of its concept; thus the soul flows omnipresently in this manifold but remains at the same time the simple oneness of the concrete concept with itself."
"The positing of the stimulus or the external is itself the sublation of it, and, conversely, the sublation of the stimulus is the positing of the externality."
"Duties of the moral teachers of the people I Human beings, taken together, constitute a single moral community."
"It begins with the presupposition that the objects in tension, as much as they are tensed against themselves, just as much are they by that very fact at first tensed against each other a relation which is called their affinity."
"The soliciting force refers to the other negatively"
"But we cannot determine a priori precisely how, and in what variety of ways, things are possible with respect to their causes since for this we require knowledge of empirical laws."
"There is within us a drive toward the things of nature, the goal of which is to bring these things into a determinate relationship with our own nature; this drive has no end outside of itself and aims at its own satisfaction solely for the sake of being satisfied."
"I have also indicated there the defect of this system, both with respect to form and matter."
"Initially a logical maxim bids us to reduce this apparent variety as far as possible by discovering hidden identity through comparison, and seeing if imagination combined with consciousness may not be memory, wit, the power to distinguish, or perhaps even understanding and reason."
"Instead, this is given through and by means of the act of self determination, and with this we have assembled everything needed in order to produce an efficacious action."
"But contradiction does not contain merely the negative; it also contains the positive; or the self excluding reflection is at the same time positing reflection; the result of contradiction is not only the null."
"This point is crucial:"
"Nevertheless, one by no means thereby cognizes anything about the soul that one really wants to know, for all these predicates are not valid of intuition at all, and therefore cannot have any consequences that could be applied to objects of experience; hence they are com pletely empty."
"Consciousness of right, therefore, in the very fact of being recognized as having validity, experiences rather the loss of its reality and its complete inessentiality; and to describe an individual as a 'perm son' is an expression of contempt I."
"esitSessentlaraetemiInation, or whether it receives it only by means of the subjective will."
"I.e., postulates, in the original sense of this term."
"It is this power, not as something positive, which closes its eyes to the negative, as when we say of something that it is nothing is false, and then, having done with it, turn away and pass on tO,something else; on the contrary, Spirit is this power only by looking the negative in the face, and tarrying with it."
"They become posited in their negativity, for as they le sidedly constitute themselves as their opposite present independent totalities, both refusing to accept what is present itself within them"
"It seems as though they perceived a voice within them say that it must make a difference."
"But since every division presupposes a concept that is to be divided, a still higher one must be given, and this is the concept of an object in general (taken problematically, leaving undecided whether it is something or nothing)."
"The first law, therefore, guards against excess in the manifold variety of original genera, and recommends sameness of kind; the second, on the contrary, limits in turn this inclination to unanimity, and demands that one distinguish subspecies before one turns to the individuals with one's universal concepts."
"We are here overlooking the fact that the possibility of a concept of an end itself seems to be conditioned by cognition of an object outside of us and by cognition of the latter's form, as something that exists without any help from us; for this is merely what is asserted by ordinary consciousness, and we do not yet know to what extent it will be confirmed."
"The aim of the foregoing has been to highlight the simple, specific nature of differential calculus by defining it, and to demonstrate it in some elementary examples."
"For where ordinary sound understanding confuses two distinct principles, and draws its correct conclusion in point of fact only from one of them, it generally finds it difficult, if their separation calls for much re<U+FB02>ection, to dissociate one from the other as heterogeneous principles."
"Thus I say the concept of a highest intelligence is a mere idea,.e."
"(if it would otherwise be pos sible) as a necessary condition of its probative force."
"Second, the thing has thereby progressed from its indeterminacy to full determinateness."
"Its alienation consists in the moments going apart from one another and in one of them having an un@q ua value compared withthe other."
"The first thing starts from the place that I occupy in the external world of sense and expands the connection in which I stand into the immensely large, with worlds upon worlds and systems of systems, and also into boundless times of their periodic motion, the beginni and continuance thereof."
"On this point we shall observe briefly at the start what is necessary."
"is the quantitative relation or ratio."
"the latter is concept would be designated as one, two, three, four,"
"According to this qualitative side, the particular judgment is likewise a problematic one, for it has positive just as much as negative value (equally problematic is also the being of the subject and predicate in the hypothetical judgment), and also posited through this side is that the singular judgment and the categorical are still something merely subjective."
"One can very well suppress disorderly desires by not reflecting on them, by ignoring them, and by occupying oneself with something else, especially with intellectual work, so that, as theological ethicists aptly express it, one refuses to indulge the desires in question."
"The solution is not difficult."
"Thus there is no healthier soil for pine trees than a sandy soil."
": viz., the power of freedom, the freedom of which the moral law, which itself needs no justifying grounds, proves not only the possibility but the actuality in beings who cognize this law as obligating for them."
"so that one can even imagine the miscreant as one eyed or toothless); but the conce has nothin to do with this .absw:.dity, f<U+FFFD> which the introduction of that idea of specific equality is alone to blame."
"This Substanceis, as Subject, pure, simple negativity, and isfor this very reason the bifurcation of the simple; itis the doubling ichsetsupopposition, and then again the negation of this indifferent diversity and of its anti. thesis"
"The particular judgment"
"But this dissection of motion takes on another meaning in connection with the determination of its trajectory."
"The organism shows itself to be a heing thatpreserves itself, that returns and has returned into itself."
"One advantage of this rendering is that the corresponding 'based on' is rather less awkward than 'grounded in.'"
"Now the immediate judgment of reflection is again, 'the singular is universal,' but with the subject and predicate in the signification just explained."
"But to what extent am I required to do this Naturally, I am required to communicate correct cognition to the other person only to the extent that the cognition in question has some immediate influence upon his acting, that is, to the extent that this cognition is immediately practical for him."
"Truth is the agreement of thought with the subject matter, and in order to produce this agreement for it is not there on its own account thought is expected to be subservient and responsive to the subject matter."
"This judgment is now truly objective; or it is the truth of the judgment in general."
"Then if the possibility of a matter endowed with life and of the whole of nature conceived as an animal is invoked in support of the hypothesis of a purposiveness of nature in the macrocosm, it can only be used with the utmost reserve in so far as it is manifested empirically in the organization of nature in the microcosm."
"If anything is still lacking, it is the condition for the application of these categories, and specifically that of causality, to objects."
"In the broken up One I find many sl:lch properties which do not affect one another but are mutually indifferent."
"The philosophical view that accepts as principle that being is only being, nothing only nothing, deserves the name of 'system of identity'; this abstract identity is the essence of pantheism."
"The system of natural numbers already exhibits a nodal line of qualitative moments which issue in a merely external progression."
"Now the limit in question should be the limit of a given function; it assigns a certain value with reference to this function as determined by the manner of derivation."
"In each possible determination, however, the two drives partially coincide."
"Now between the faculties of knowledge and desire stands the feeling of pleasure, just as judgement is intermediate between understanding and reason."
"It defines explicitly the true relation that obtains between any subject and its predicate."
"within a particular state; and this is the principle which underlies knowledge Kezmtllis of right, ie the positive sciezlce ofright."
"Essence returns into itself as it negates; therefore, in its turning back into itself, it gives itself the determinateness that precisely for this reason is the self identical negative,"
"Since this mode of efficiency is as such an external activity restricted to a single determinateness according to content, the determinations that it posits come associated together externally and accidentally; taken one by one, the determinations are comprehended through their causes; but their connection, which constitutes what is essential in a concrete existence, is not to be found in mechanical causes."
"The infinite and the finite, taken together as referring to each other in a connection which is presumed external but is in fact essential to them (for without it, neither is what it is), each contains its other in its own determination, just as, when each is taken for itself, when looked at on its terms, each has the other present in it as its own moment."
"But the good and the right are also a content not just a natural content, but a content posited by my rationality; and to make my freedom the content of my will is a pure determination of my freedom itself."
"But if we consider these principlesc of pure understanding in themselves as to their origin, then they are anything but cognitions from concepts."
"For what he turns against the enemy and finds turned against himself, and what he runs the risk of wasting and damaging both in his own case as well as that of the ene, is not to be the good itself; for he fights to preserve and act;omplish that."
"We arrived at such a realization in the noch worin wir das Gesollte darzustellen haben."
"Now after all paths (as we persuade ourselves) have been tried in vain, what rules is tedium and complete indifferentism,"
"The dialectical illusion in rational psychology rests on the confusion of an idea of reason (of a pure intelligence) with the concept, in every way indeterminate, of a thinking being in general."
"First, the syllogism does not deal with intuitions, in order to bring them under rules (as does the understanding with its categories), but rather deals with concepts and judgments."
"The difference of the one and"
"Now, because this concept had no practical a priori law for its standard, the touchstone of good or evil could be posited in nothing other than the agreement of the object with our feeling of pleasure or displeasure, and the use of reason could consist only in determining partly this pleasure or displeasure in the ir entire coherence with all the sensations of my existence, and partly the means to provide myself with the object of this pleasure or displeasure."
"Yet this is the representation which we must form of an organized body."
"Formerly, however, the relation of the two bore the character of a synthetic combination of the universal and theinQlvidual, ie of pict re 'thinking."
"Because of the abstract character of the good, the other moment of the Idea, ie particularity in general, falls within subjectivity."
"The only reservation that is to be found here is that this rational be lief is grounded on the presupposition of moral dispositions."
"With this identity, the qualitative something comes on the scene; for the identity is the unity that refers back to itself through the negation of its distinct terms; these terms, however, make up the determinateness of the existent magnitude."
"Consequently, form determines matter, and matter is determined by form."
"In each case my drive is satisfied, for it did not want anything other than this."
"Existerzz which I give to my end, and which is for me at the same time an other."
"Consciousness has gained in sophistication since then, but as long as it is not clear about the distinction between what can be proved mathematically and what can only be taken from elsewhere, between the mere terms of an analytical expansion and things that exist physically, scientific culture will lack rigor and purity."
"If we do not raise ourselves above it, then the matter rests with that cultivation we have received from society."
"This is the external character of the sincere man des offenen Mannes."
"Otherwise we would assume that there is no intuition at all without the senses and hence also no things outside the objects of sense belonging to intuition."
"but (contrary to the nature of an idea) constitu tively"
"Moreover, you must have ascribed to this intellect the power to produce a being through its mere concept; for after all, you have presupposed it as an intellect precisely in order to find thereby a ground of being."
"To make this more intelligible, it may be remarked, in a preliminary and general way, that the exposition of the untrue consciousness in its untruth is not a merely negative procedure."
"Thus the solution of the problem in mechanics to discover the respective lengths of the arms of a lever if a given force is to be in equilibrium with a given weight is certainly expressed as a practical formula, but one which contains no more than the theoretical proposition: in a state of equilibrium the lengths of the arms of the lever are inversely proportional to the former."
"The uestionmust therefore be considered whether in sense"
"And the further difference inside the series of each of the two sides, between a more or less positive or a more or less negative disposition, is just as entirely uncertain as it is entirely unconfirmed."
"It has the shape of heing."
"Furthermore, this right is one of those instances in which a determination from a higher sphere is applied to, or reflected in, a lower one."
"So, the shine of skepticism and the appearance of idealism do immediately have a manifold of determination."
"Thus if, for example, the ani<U+FFFD>"
"The whiteness does not affect the cubical shape, and neither affects the tart taste,"
"The protection of the state and the governed against the misuse of power on the part of the official bodies and their members is, on the one hand, the direct responsibility Verantwortlichkeit of their own hierarchy; on the other hand, it lies with the legal recognition tigung Bereclz accorded to communities and corporations, for this prevents subjective arbitrariness from interfering on its own account rfiir sich with the power entrusted to officials, and supplements from below that control from above which does not extend as far as individual conduct."
"ofthe thing itself, is something which thought must get the 'better of."
"If one regards the two propositions, The world is infinite in magni tude, The world is finite in magnitude, as contradictory opposites, then one assumes that the world (the whole series of appearances) is a thing in itself."
"So there we have repulsion, if we stay at its first definition, according to which the ones repel each other and only negatively (which means here, through empty space) connect with each other."
"Evil in general is self centred being for self, and Goodness is what is simple and without a self."
"The principle, however, 'There are no two perfectly like things,' expresses more than that, for it expresses determinate difference."
"For this antithesis is rather itself the indiscrete continuity and identity of'l' '; and each, through the very contradiction ofits pure universality, which at the same time still strives against its identity with the other, and cuts itself off from it, explicitly supersedes itself within its own self."
"Conversely, by nature taken substantively (materialiter!"
"namely pure a priori intuitions, space and time, in which, if we want to go beyond the given concept in an a priori judgment, we encounter that which is to be discovered a priori and synthetically connected with it, not in the concept but in the intuition that corresponds to it;"
"The divisor is determined as unit and the quotient as amount whenever the stated task of the division is to see how many times (the amount)"
"In poetry everything is straight and above board."
"was also determined for them."
"I understand the cognition the original being, then it is either from pure reason (theologia rationalis) or from revelation (rev elata)."
"The word construiert is missing in the first edition."
"Faith, in its certainty, is an unsophisticated rela.tionship to its absolute object, a pure knowing of it which does not mix up letters, paper, and copyists in its consciousness of absolute Being, and does not bring itself into relation with it by means ofthings ofthat kind."
"However, this acquaintance with, and weighing of, all the circumstances are not altogether lacking; but they exist only as a moment, as something which is only for others; and this incomplete knowledge is held by the conscientious mind to be sufficient and complete, because it is its own knowledge."
"Cona for sich Object sequently"
"But for that reason it is only the external, immediate relation, the relation of whole and parts in which the sides have indifferent subsistence vis a vis each other."
"This true essence of Things has now the character of not being immediately for consciousness; on the contrary, consciousness has a mediated relation to the inner being and, as the Understanding, looks through this mediating play of Forces into the true hackground of Things."
"the need to make the requisite inquiries and negotiations as short as possible give rise to aspects of common interest in which the business of one is at the same time carried out on behalf of all; they also give rise to means and arrangements which may be of use to the community."
"The fact proceeds from the ground."
"At the same time, what for self consciousness is good and bad, is intrinsically good and bad; for it isjust that in which these two moments of intrinsic being, and ofbeingJor it, are the same."
"It may well be that, because of external hindrances, we are often unable to realize in the world outside us what we have willed most firmly, but the moral law does not unconditionally demand the execution of what we have willed but only that we apply all of our strength and only that we do what we are able to do."
"have now to see more closel the implications of this independence."
"(b) What is thus dirempted, which constitutes the parts thought ofas in the law, exhibits itselfas a stable existence; and if the parts are."
"Our concept of time therefore explains the possibility of as much synthetic a priori cognition as is presented by the general theory of motion, which is no less fruitful."
"operta sunt civitatis opulentia."
"Finally, let us think of both what is subjective and what is objective, of each determined by the other: the legislation in question manifests itself only on the condition that one thinks of oneself as free, but when one thinks of oneself as free, this legislation necessarily manifests itself."
"Viewed from the perspective of what is ideal, 'object lies at such and such a distance from me in space' means that in traversing the space from me to the object I must first apprehend and posit such and such other objects in order to be able to posit the object in question."
"Since it is, properly, the concept of freedom which, among all the ideas of pure speculative reason, alone provides such great expansion in the realm of the suprasensible, even if only in regard to practical cognition, I ask myself"
"This is all the more acceptable in proportion to the triviality of the business which is thereby vitiated or conducted less efficiently, more laboriously, etc., and to its relative unimportance for the more general concerns of the state; and the same applies the more directly the laborious or foolish conduct of such trifling business is related to the satisfaction and self esteem lgvon sich which are derived from it."
"The real ground has a diversified content; with this content, however, there also comes the contingency and the externality of the groundconnection."
"With this we have joined together the two extremes of the entire world of reason."
"For after asserting that the imperatives of skill command only conditionally, under the condition of ends that are merely possible, ie problematic, I described such practical precepts as 'problematical imperatives', an expression which obviously harbours a contradiction."
"It is therefore very important for us to know whether the method for obtaining apodictic certainty that one calls mathematical in the latter science is identical with that by means of which one seeks the same certainty in philosophy, and that would there have to be called dogmatic."
"But recollection, the inwatdizing, or that experience, has preserved it and is the inner being, and in fact the higher form of the substance."
"Now, it must be noted carefully that these categories concern only practical reason in general, and hence they proceed in their order from those that are morally still undetermined and sensibly conditioned to those that, being sensibly unconditioned, are determined only by the moral law."
"From this it follows that it can by no means be the aim of public religious institutions to construct theoretical proofs See above, sect."
"The law is thus the positive element of the mediation of what appears."
"the thought Idea of the good realized in the internally reflected will and in the extmlal world; so that freedom, as the substance, exists no less as actuality and necessity than as subjective will; the Idea in its universal existence Existmz in.and for itself; the sphere of etlzical lije."
"For instance, in the proposition, 'the rose is fragrant,' the predicate expresses only one of the many properties of the rose; it isolates it, whereas in the subject the property is joined with the others; likewise in the dissolution of the thing, the manifold properties that inhere in it become isolated in acquiring self subsistence as materials."
"A If I want to cognize through experience the numerical identity of an external object, then I will attend to what is persisting in its appearance, to which, as subject, everything else relates as a determination, and I will notice the identity of the former in the time in which the latter changes."
"it is for him purpose and essence."
"We have represented the glittering pretensions of reason to extend its territory beyond all the bounds of experience only in dry formulas, which contain merely the ground reason's legal claims; and, as is fit ting for a transcendental philosophy, we have divested these claims of everything empirical, even though the full splendor of reason's assertions can shine forth only in such a combination."
"I have deleted the emphasis on cm ('a')."
"merits but that he can never be requir to obey any law other than the pure practical law of reason."
"(a) As we have seen, the moral final end of every rational being is the self sufficiency of reason as such, and hence the morality of all rational beings."
"Therefore, in fact, there remains for it only the positive relation to them, ie just what a moment ago was, qua imperfect, held to be immoral."
"Fourth, the concepts of the possible, actual, and necessary lead to no series, except only insofar as the contingent in existence always has to be seen as conditioned and refers in accordance with the rule of the understanding to a condition under which it is necessary to refer this to a higher condition, until reason attains to unconditioned necessity only in the series in its totality."
"We should show them that this is the principle that underlies their own conduct."
"Thus of the division of matter (of a body) that is given within certain boundaries, it must be said that it goes to infinity."
"Jure being, death; it is a state which has been reached immediately, in the course of Nature, not the result of an action consc ously done."
", it confidently takes on the exe cution of this task without an antecedent examination of the capacity or incapacitye of reason for such a great undertaking."
"It is less than nothing."
"In the name, the individual counts as a pure individual, no longer only in his own consciousness, but in the consciousness of everyone."
"Principien Kraft Problem"
"On the other hand the comprehension of the manifold in the unity, not of thought, but of intuition, and consequently the comprehension of the successively apprehended parts at one glance, is a retrogression that removes the time condition in the progression of the imagination, and renders co existence intuitable."
"Here, it is imagined that each must wait until his hour has struck, and that one can give one's love only to a specific individual."
"The question about the latter would be whether we have only an inner sense but no outer one, rather merely outer imagination."
"Being no longer has the significance of abstract being, nor has their pure essentiality the significance of abstract universality; on the contrary, their being is precisely that simple fluid substance of pure movement within itself."
"Given that the subject matter is concrete and inherently of so varied a nature, I have of course omitted to demonstrate and bring out the logical progression in each and every detail."
"As this reflection began to emerge, first as a disposition and then in actuality, they succumbed to it, because the simple principle on which they were still based lacked the truly infinite power which resides solely in that unity which allows the opposition within reason Vemunfi to develop to its full strength, and has overcome it so as to preserve itself within it and wholly ltain it within itself."
"On this same basis, one could also divide human beings into two classes Klassen a higher and a lower one."
"auf atic unity of the understanding's cognitions, which, however, is the touchstone of truth for its rules."
"Wills in general have a disagreeable and unpleasant aspect, for in making my will, I identifY those for whom I have an affection."
"For a power of choice is sensible insofar as it is pathologically affected (through moving causes of sensibility); it is called an animal power of choice (arbitrium brutum) if it can be pathologically necessitated."
"But it is not possible for any human being to find an an swer to this question, and no one will ever fill this gap in our knowledge, but rather only indicate it, by ascribing outer appearances to a tran scendental object that is the cause of this species of representations, with which cause, however, we have no acquaintance at all, nor will we ever get a concept of it."
"The moments of being for itself have sunk into an indifferentiation which is immediacy or being, but an immediacy that is based on the negating posited as its determination."
"There is no need, therefore, of other preparations to enter philosophy, no need of further reflections or access points."
"Sophistikationen A subject itself, even though in this way I have no concept at all of it."
"It has the entire essentiality of the objective world in its concept; its process consists in positing for itself the concrete reality of that world as identical with the concept, and conversely in positing the latter as identical with objectivity."
"This system is already averted by means of the important insight that the moral law is by no means the sort of thing that could ever be present within us without any assistance from us, but is instead something that we ourselves first make."
"For, when confronted with a knowledge that is without truth, Science can neither merely reject it as an ordinary way of looking at things, while assuring us that its Science is a quite different sort of cognition for which that ordinary kn edge is of no account whatever; nor can it appeal to the vulgar view for the intimations it gives us of something better to come."
"Hence no given action (since it can be perceived only as appearance) can begin absolutely from itself."
"Because of the diversity of content between the ground or, more appropriately, the substrate, and that which in the grounded is linked to it, the assigning of real grounds is no less of a formalism than is the formal ground itself."
"However, in place of a deducti of the supreme principle of pure practical reason,.e., explanation of the possibility of such an a priori cognition, we were able to adduce nothing more than this: that if one had insight into the possibility of the freedom of an efficient cause, then one would also have insight not merely into the possibility but even into the necessity of the moral law as the supreme practical law of rational beings, to whom one attributes freedom of the causality of their will."
"In the determination yet to be considered, however, the outer aspect is lastly a wholly immobile reality which is not in its self a speaking sign"
"f rotions and agreements, yet"
"On the contrary, it counts merely as something universally acknowledged, viz."
"the absolute validity previously attaching to them."
"The two extremes are identical in that they are the idea."
", in regard to representations that are not empirical."
"And yet they would not concede this force to either of the two parents when dealing with the complete product of two creatures of the same genus."
"The practical power is therefore unable to provide us with this X; instead, the latter has to be sought by the power of judgment, which is here reflecting freely."
"However the fact that in the actual world abundant material for physical teleology exists to satisfy the rational beings in it a fact not antecedently necessary serves as a desirable confirmation of the moral argument, so far as nature can adduce anything analogous to the ideas of reason (moral ideas in this case)."
"lapping one another, transitions and confusions developing; what it at first took to he absolutely separate, it sees combined with something else, and what it reckoned to be in combination, it sees apart and separate."
"Admittedly, several states may form a league and sit in judgement, as it were, on other states, or they may enter into alliances (like the Holy Alliance, for example), but these are always purely relative and limited, like the ideal of perpetual peace."
"In this case the dispute reveals nothing but a certain antinomy of reason, which, since it depends upon its nature, must necessarily be heard and examined."
"From this point of view, which is natural though inexplicable to our reason, one can justify even judgmen which, though made in all conscientiousness, yet seem at first glance to conflict thoroughly with all equity."
"; further, npe for it the object is nota result, and is not connected with the preceding activity, it presents itself to consciousness as a particular kind ofobject, and the relation of consciousness to it appears as another kind of observation."
"But this idea of the supersensible, which no doubt we cannot further determine so that we cannot cognize nature as its presentation, but only think it as such is awakened in us by an object the aesthetic judging of which strains the imagination to its utmost, whether in respect of its extension (mathematical), or of its might over the mind (dynamical)."
"That is to say, of the being inand for itself of the Useful qua object, consciousness recognizes that its being in itselfis essentially a being for an other; being in."
"Yet it is not the personal element, but concept itsel which carries out retribution. '"
"That is how it is with the ideal of reason, which always rests on determinate concepts and must serve as a rule and an original image, whether for following or for judging."
", to itself inasmuch as it regards itself as practical a priori."
"No concept is here presupposed of any end for which the manifold should serve the given object, and which the latter, therefore, should represent an incumbrance which would only restrict the freedom of the imagination that, as it were, is at play in the contemplation of the outward form."
"not It, the body, is heavy, which would be to say that these two representations are com bined in the object,d.e., regardless of any difference in the condition of the subject, and are not merely found together in perception (however often as that might be repeated)."
"The equation, that is, the mathematical expression, for plain uniform motion (c st or ct, where the spaces traversed are proportional to the elapsed times according to an empirical unit which is the magnitude of the velocity) offers no scope for differentiation; the coefficient is already fully determined and known, and no further expansion of powers is admissible."
"It has already been justified in the other work, and would indeed not be capable of any other justification than is produced by consciousness as all its shapes dissolve into that concept as into their truth."
"In an equation in which and are first posited as determined by a power relation, and as such are still supposed to signify quanta; now this whole significance is entirely lost in the so called infinitesimal differences."
"The latter expression is the immediate sensuous presence of the individual spirit; the inwardness which is supposed to be the true inner is the particularity of the intention and the singleness of the being for self; both together are the spirit as only 'meane or intended."
"It is a matter of conscience for him to regard himself in this manner, for it is precisely and only within the form of the constitution that has been entrusted to him that anyone at all can act with a good conscience."
"From the point of view of ordinary consciousness, the fact that our efficacy is limited to the employment of certain determinate means in order to achieve a determinate end must be explained by some determinate properties of the things, by means of determinate laws of nature, which just happen to be the way they are."
"And the guilt also acquires the meaning of crime; for as simple, ethical consciousness, it has turned towards one law, but turned its back on the other and violates the latter by its deed."
"On the one/hand, it exCludes all other individuals from its act, and on the other hand; it thereby constitutes itself a government that isa specific will, and so standsopposedtothe universal will; consequently, itisabsolutely impossible for it to exhibit itself as anything else but a jaction."
"Second, in the cognition of duty it is determined that one ought to act in a certain way in precisely this case."
"But Bardili also, and Reinhold when a disciple of Bardili, used pseudo algebraic formulas to express their logical realism."
"If abstraction is made from every determination, from every form of a something, matter is what is left over."
"And also, since this same relation of powers contains in turn an aggregate of more precisely determined relations such as that of a power and its expansion function, these relations also would have in turn to be based on, and derived from, the general and negative determination of still the same infinitesimal."
"Although, as consciousness, it does indeed come QutQ itself, yet, though out of itself, it is at the same time kept back within itself, isfor itself, and the self outside it, is for it."
"In transcendental philosophy, however, there are no questions other than the cosmological ones in regard to which one can rightfully de mand a sufficient answer concerning the constitution of the object itself; the philosopher is not allowed to evade them by pleading their impene trable obscurity, and these questions can have to do only with cosmo logical ideas."
"When it is a matter of thinking or judging, the stone does not stand in its own way; it is dispensed from the burden of making use of itself for the task; something else outside it must shoulder that effort."
"The distinction which was made between actual Spirit and Spirit that knows itself as Spirit, or between itself, qua conscionsness, and qua self consciousness, is superseded in the Spirit that knows itselfin its truth; its consciousness and its self con sdousnessare on the same level."
"The person blind from birth cannot form the least representation of darkness, because he has no representation of light; the savage has no acquaintance with poverty, because he has none with prosperity."
"The fact that I have to fit in with other people brings the form of universality into play at this point."
"On the other hand, this abstract subject matter is still space, a non sensuous sensuous."
"Now it might well be that this same mere form of knowledge also contains, if not immediately, then mediated by the immediate knowledge just indicated, all of the remaining manifold that lies in the abovementioned representation of my efficacy."
"The wrong which is done by non performance or positive infringement (i.e. by an action in violation of one's duty, which applies in both of these cases) is therefore an infringement of the universal content itself, ie a negatively infinite judgement (cf., and hence a mis demeanour or even a crime."
"But for the law of freedom (which is a causality not sensibly conditioned at all), and hence also for the concept of the unconditional good, there is no intuition and hence no schema that can be laid at its basis for the sake of its application in concreto."
"Kant designates such a rule quite felicitously as a maxim."
"Conversely, contingency thereby comes to be freedom at the same time, for the sides of necessity, which have the shape of independent, free actualities that do not reflectively shine into each other, are now posited as an identity, so that now these totalities of immanent reflection, in their differences, also shine as identical, in other words, they are also posited as only one and the same reflection."
"But what we describe as a crime is not a general proposition of this kind, left inde terminate and still subject to a dialectic; on the contrary, it is already delimited in a determinate and objective manner."
"In the direct ratio, the alteration of the two sides is only the one alteration of the quantum from which the unity which is the common element is taken; by as much, therefore, as the one side is increased or decreased, so also is the other; the ratio itself is indifferent to this alteration and the alteration external to the ratio."
"But, second, it is determined within; this it is in the amount as its amount, not in the amount as excluded, or not in the amount of the other degrees."
"The rea on for this was given above: fixed thoughts have the 'I', the power of the negative, or pure actuality, for the substance and element of their existence, whereas sensuous determinations have only powerless, abstract immediacy, or being as such."
"All relationsb of thinking in judgments are those a) of the predicate to the subject, b) of the ground to the consequence, and c) between the cognition that is to be divided andc all of the members of the division."
"The movement is the twofold process and the genesis of the whole, in such wise that each side simultaneously posits the other, and each therefore has both perspectives within itself; together they thus constitute the whole by dis$olving themselves, and by making themselves into its moments."
"This can be seen from the physico mechanical explanations of the events occurring in the material world, which take their principles partly from universal (rational) natural science and partly from that science which contains the empirical laws of motion."
"The truth of the relation consists therefore in the mediation; its essence is the negative unity in which both the reflected and the existent immediacy are equally sublated."
"I tis bound, therefore, to beat the same time absolute empiricism, for in order to give filling to the empty 'mine', Le."
"These empty abstractions of a Isingleness' and a 'uni versality' opposed to it, and of an 'essence' that is linked with something unessential a 'non essential' aspect which is necessary all the same"
