"x"
"It is certain that the same storm and stress tormented them,"
"Verily, I have taken from you a hundred formulae and your virtue's favourite playthings; and now ye upbraid me, as children upbraid."
"How could ye perish so soon for me!"
"With a little terminological laxity Jesus might be called a free spirit he cares not a jot for anything that is established: the word killeth, everything fixed killtth."
"Ye higher men, how much is still possible!"
"The gloomy, ambitious son of the people, shy, lonely, and ready for anything, who chooses rather to be alone than to be a destroyer, he offers himself as an instrument."
"mine animals, answered Zarathustra, talk on thus and let me listen!"
"A Dionysian life task needs the hardness of the hammer, and one of its first essentials is without doubt the joy even of destruction."
"(Matthew All these things that is to say, food, clothing, all the necessities of life."
"Or of those even who preach sympathy!"
"Inasmuch as the entire state of all forces continually returns, everything has existed an infinite number of times."
"what was he then obliged to behold with his own eyes! '"
"Error (the belief in the ideal) is not blindness; error is cowardice."
"Gloomily walked I lately in corpse coloured twilight gloomily and sternly, with compressed lips."
"So have I heard thee say once before,' answered the disciple, 'and then thou addedst: 'But the poets lie too much.'"
"gilded evening red doth not joy want!"
"Halt, dwarf!' said I. '"
"the work itself is a success; the great statesman, the conqueror, the discoverer, are disguised in their creations until they are unrecognizable; the work of the artist, of the philosopher, only invents him who has created it, is to have created it; the great men, as they are reverenced, are poor little fictions composed afterwards; in the world of historical values spurious coinage."
"The dog leaping, bristling, whining now"
"Such a Southerner, a Southerner not by origin but by if he should dream of the future of music, must also dream of it being freed from the influence of the North; and must have in his ears the prelude to a deeper, mightier, and perhaps more perverse and mysterious music, a super German music, which does not fade, pale, and die away, as all German music does, at the sight of the blue, wanton sea and the Mediterranean clearness of sky a super European music, which holds its own even in presence of the brown sunsets of the desert, whose soul is akin to the palm tree, and can be at home and can roam with big, beautiful, lonely beasts of prey."
"The prophet, the messiah, the future judge, the teacher of morals, the worker of wonders, John the Baptist all these merely presented chances to misunderstand it."
"It was a result, it had not been there from the beginning."
"A sickly barbarism finally lifts itself to power as the church the church, that incarnation of deadly hostility to all honesty, to all loftiness of soul, to all discipline of the spirit, to all spontaneous and kindly humanity."
"It is so nice and such a distinction to have one's own antipodes!."
"answered Zarathustra, and smiled at his animals. '"
"And above all, away with the body, this wretched id fixe of the senses, infected with all the faults of logic that exist, refuted, even impossible, although it be impudent enough to pose as if it were real!"
"The slave has an unfavourable eye for the virtues of the powerful; he has a skepticism and distrust,"
"But changeable am I only, and wild, and altogether a woman, and no virtuous one:"
"whatever else all the royal and magnificent anchorites of the spirit were called, and with what justice an honest man of science feel himself of a better family and origin, in view of such representatives of philosophy, who, owing to the fashion of the present day, are just as much aloft as they are down below in Germany, for instance, the two lions of Berlin, the anarchist Eugen Duhring and the amalgamist Eduard von Hartmann."
"There are so many dawns which have not yet shed their light"
"Would that another child put them again into the box!"
"With this feeling of distance"
"We modern men, so extremely delicate and susceptible, full of consideration one for the other, actually dare to suppose that the pampering fellow feeling which we all display, this unanimity which we have at last acquired in sparing and helping and trusting one another marks a definite step forward, and shows us to be far ahead of the man of the Renaissance."
"what I mean what I mean the last Wagner and his Parsifal music: Is this our mode?"
"that is also a standard, one also makes a gradation of rank and an etiquette therewith, such as is necessary for mind and for star."
"We are both of us genuine ne'er do wells and ne'er"
"The manner in which a theologian, whether in Berlin or in Rome, interprets a verse from the Scriptures, or an experience, or the triumph of his nation's army for instance, under the superior guiding light of David's Psalms, is always so exceedingly daring, that it is enough to make a philologist's hair stand on end."
"they say, but they dispatch all those to hell who stand in their way."
"Of whom am I talking to you?"
"For if I had not already decided within myself what it is, by what standard could I determine whether that which is just happening is not perhaps 'willing' or 'feeling'?"
"Moral systems must be compelled first of all to bow before the their presumption must be driven home to their conscience until they thoroughly understand at last that it is to say that 'what is right for one is proper for another.'"
"This positive genius for conjuring up a delusion of personal holiness unmatched anywhere else, either in books or by men; this elevation of fraud in word and attitude to the level of an art all this is not an accident due to the chance talents of an individual, or to any violation of nature."
"If I did not myself commiserate their the pity of those enviers and injurers!"
"The Christian and the anarchist: both are cadents both are incapable of any act that is not disintegrating,"
"He is even sanctified by such a taste, and is already the type of a higher order!"
"his ideas themselves eventually acquire a twilight colour of their own, and an odour,"
"Power they seek for, and above all, the lever of power, much money these impotent ones!"
"To equals equality, to unequals inequality that would be the real speech of justice and that which follows from it Never make unequal things equal."
"The reason thereof is that he carrieth too many extraneous things on his shoulders."
"Behold, I am disease,' saith the evil deed: that is its honourableness."
"Raise not a finger against it!' '"
"In effect, to translate man back again into nature; to master the many vain and visionary interpretations and subordinate meanings which have hitherto been scratched and daubed over the eternal original text, to bring it about that man shall henceforth stand before man as he now, hardened by the discipline of science, stands before the forms of nature, with fearless Oedipus eyes, and stopped Ulysses ears, deaf to the enticements of old metaphysical bird catchers, who have piped to him far too long"
"With my own eyes I have seen gifted, richly endowed, and free spirited natures already read to ruins at thirty, and mere wax vestas that have to be rubbed before they can give off any sparks or thoughts."
"Around light and liberty did they once flutter like gnats and young poets."
"To the Greeks, the symbol of sex was the most venerated of symbols, the really deep significance of all the piety of antiquity."
"The prerequisite to a codification of this sort is recognition of the fact that the means which establish the authority of a slowly and painfully attained truth are fundamentally different from those which one would make use of to prove it."
"Like a tempest do the suns fly over their course: for such is their way."
"Who art thou then, my soul!'"
"The theologian's instinct in the German scholar divined what had once again been made possible."
"The popular expectation of a Messiah once more became prominent; attention was fixed upon one historical moment: the Kingdom of God descends to sit in judgment upon his enemies."
"And this slow spider which creepeth in the moonlight, and this moonlight itself, and thou and I in this gateway whispering together, whispering of eternal things must we not all have already existed?"
"Better to adore God so, in this form, than in no form at all!"
"Women are still on their knees before an error because they have been told that some one died on the cross for it."
"The editor of the Swiss paper the Bund went so far as not only to express his admiration for the courage displayed by my enterprise, but also to pretend to understand that the intended purpose of my work was to abolish all decent feeling."
"Is the conformity to law which we observe perhaps only a deception?"
"The German soul has passages and galleries in it, there are caves, hiding places, and dungeons therein, its disorder has much of the charm of the mysterious, the German is well acquainted with the bypaths to chaos."
"Heroes and honourable ones, it would fain set up around it, the new idol!"
"Is it possible that the multifariousness of qualities even in our part of the world is the result of the absolute occurrence of arbitrary characteristics?"
"become a verbal game?"
"Not yet have people learned to inaugurate the finest festivals."
"I so man presseth nigh unto his neighbour."
"He combated the subterranean cults, the whole of latent Christianity to deny immortality was at that time a genuine deliverance."
"Well then, up, ye old legs!"
"it is on grounds of duty that they account for their lives of humility, and that humility becomes merely one more proof of their piety."
"Albeit, everything seems to point away from it; for, precisely in this case, tradition would necessarily have been particularly true and objective: whereas we have reasons for assuming the reverse."
"The superior caste I call them the fewest, has, as the perfect caste, the privileges of the fewest: it devolves upon them to represent happiness, beauty and goodness on earth."
"That movement which attempted to introduce itself in a scientific manner on the shoulders of Schopenhauer's morality of pity a very sad attempt!"
"A prince at the head of his armies, magnificent as the expression of the egoism and arrogance of his people and yet acknowledging, without any shame, that he is a Christian!."
"Unlearn, I pray you, this 'for,' ye creating ones: your very virtue wisheth you to have naught to do with 'for' and 'on account of' and 'because.'"
"On an isle they once thought they had landed, when the sea tossed them about; but behold, it was a slumbering monster!"
"There is a great ladder of religious cruelty, with many rounds; but three of these are the most important."
"Then will we make thee a present of the Superman!'"
"A nation that still believes in itself holds fast to its own god."
"There, already approacheth eventide: the sun sinketh."
"But we, who are neither Jesuits, nor democrats, nor even sufficiently Germans, we and free, free spirits we have it still, all the distress of spirit and all the tension of its bow!"
"Nowhere else can you meet with this passion for questions of form, this earnestness in matters of mise en sc ne, which is the Parisian earnestness par excellence."
"For now a cry of distress calleth me hastily away from thee."
"The same thing may be said of the state of the whole bourgeoise social order, of labour, of war he has no ground for denying the world, for he knows nothing of the ecclesiastical concept of the world."
"This faith cannot be formulated it lives, it guards against formulas."
"You have understood me The beginning of the Bible contains the whole psychology of the priest"
"Instead there was the triumph of life!"
"To understand that fact thoroughly this is almost enough, in the Orient, to make one a sage."
"Ah, mine angry mistress wisheth it"
"The great poet draws his creations only from out of his own reality."
"Once the concept of nature had been opposed to the concept of God, the word natural necessarily took on the meaning of abominable the whole of that fictitious world has its sources in hatred of the natural the real!, and is no more than evidence of a profound uneasiness in the presence of reality."
"Thus spake to each other the two old night watchmen and light scarers, and tooted thereupon sorrowfully on their horns: so did it happen yester night at the garden wall."
"I lay, however, on the ground, and the sweat flowed from my limbs."
"thou heaven above me, thou pure, thou luminous heaven!"
"for me to learn to believe in your 'conscientiousness,' ye would first have to break your venerating will."
"Rather would I succumb than disown this one thing; and verily, where there is succumbing and leaf falling, lo, there doth Life sacrifice itself for power!"
"In the end, it is not only permitted to make this attempt, it is commanded by the conscience of."
"Truth has already been turned topsy turvy, when the conscious advocate of nonentity and of denial passes as the representative of truth."
"A craving for love is within me, which itself speaketh the language of love."
"For is an exception with us."
"Thus speak and stammer: 'That is good, that do I love, thus doth it please me entirely, thus only do I desire the good."
"My friends, what think ye?"
"than any kind of ideal man?."
"this question flashed like a lightning stroke."
"At that time I lost not a particle of the good will of others, but rather added to my store."
"mine animals, are ye also cruel?"
"The humanitarian blessings of Christianity!"
"They want to hear nothing of any one walking above their heads; and so they put wood and earth and rubbish betwixt me and their heads."
"A wanderer am I, who have walked long at thy heels; always on the way, but without a goal, also without a home: so that verily, I lack little of being the eternally Wandering Jew, except that I am not eternal and not a Jew."
"They deliver the physiologically botched by teaching them the doctrine of swift death."
"I have now explained how Socrates fascinated: he seemed to be a doctor, a Saviour."
"But why doth Zarathustra speak otherwise unto his pupils than unto himself?'."
"They are merry,' he began again, 'and who knoweth?"
"For the condemnation of life by a living creature is after all but the symptom of a definite kind of life: the question as to whether the condemnation is justified or the reverse is not even raised."
"And after all, why should I not express my suspicions?"
"For nearly a thousand years they have tangled and confused everything their fingers have touched; they have on their conscience all the half way measures, all the three eighths way measures, that Europe is sick of, they also have on their conscience the uncleanest variety of Christianity that exists, and the most incurable and indestructible Protestantism."
"But take care lest it be thy fate to suffer all their poisonous injustice!"
"I Zarathustra, the godless!'"
"the sense of fact the last and more valuable of all the senses, had its schools, and its traditions were already centuries old!"
"All mankind's faults and weaknesses"
"It is not a faith which distinguishes the Christians: the Christian acts, he distinguishes himself by means of a different mode of action."
"To crawl with meticulous care and short sighted eyes through old Greek metricians that is what I had come to!."
"To day sufferest thou still from the multitude, thou individual"
"Be on thy guard, also, against holy simplicity!"
"How could it thus become muddy!"
"Ye lonesome ones of to day, ye seceding ones, ye shall one day be a people: out of you who have chosen yourselves, shall a chosen people arise: and out of it the Superman."
"To divide the world into a true and an apparent world, whether after the manner of Christianity or of Kant (after all a Christian in disguise), is only a sign of decadence, a symptom of degenerating life."
"From the moment that Tristan was arranged for the piano all honour to you, Herr von low!"
"anything originate out of its opposite?"
"that I should neither like to speak of all matters, nor even keep silent about some of them:"
"As yet humanity hath not a goal."
"A seer, a purposer, a creator, a future itself, and a bridge to the future and alas!"
"For is it then the highest time?'"
"Perhaps thou grindest corn."
"Who has not, at one time or another sacrificed himself for the sake of his good name?."
"Rather curse a little also!"
"Wise fools speak better."
"But more is needed to make an end than to make a new verse: that do all physicians and poets know well."
"of which one is ashamed also of one's morality."
"And glory and honour and wisdom and thanks and praise and strength be to our God, from everlasting to everlasting!"
"The idea of revelation, in the sense that something which profoundly convulses and upsets one becomes suddenly visible and audible with indescribable certainty and accuracy describes the simple fact."
": wherever I find such clocks I shall wind them up with my mockery, and they shall even whirr thereby!"
"The fact that such things were possible in the German language still awaited proof; formerly, I myself would have denied most emphatically that it was possible."
"According to Schopenhauer's doctrine, the general object of art was to free one from the Will and what he honoured as the great utility of tragedy, was that it made people more resigned."
"In Buddha's teaching egoism is a duty."
"that we do not wish to betray in every respect a spirit can free itself from, and perhaps it will then be driven?"
"This man knows mankind: to what purpose does he study his fellows?"
"The same institutions, so long as they are fought for, produce quite other results; then indeed they promote the cause of freedom quite powerfully."
"Yea, thou sublime one"
"he was opposed to the sundering of reason, sensuality, feeling and will (as preached with most repulsive scholasticism by Kant, the antipodes of Goethe); he disciplined himself into a harmonious whole, he created himself."
"Thus does a skeptic console himself; and in truth he needs some consolation."
"For are ye not my brothers?"
"Not the neighbour do"
"New eyes for what is most distant."
"What hath hitherto been the greatest sin here on earth?"
"The happiness of man is, 'I will.'"
"Why wentest thou not into the forest?"
"Or, in plainer words, practise vivisection on good people, on the homo bonae voluntatis,."
"but with thee do my nostrils taste their greatest delight!"
"I knew long ago that the devil would trip me up."
"As an instance of what it means to have learnt to see, let me state that a man thus trained will as a learner have become generally slow, suspicious, and refractory."
"And readily doth he soil himself who toucheth them."
"The stability of forces and their equilibrium is a possible alternative: but it has not been reached; consequently the number of possibilities is greater than the number of real states."
"But I do not believe in it."
"And I would that I already saw the pillar of fire in which it will be consumed!"
"Hath not my world just now become perfect?"
"But incarnate, manifesting itself in men's bearing and in their instinct, in short constituting reality."
"said to the diamond one day the charcoal; 'are we then not near relatives?'"
"Thus do all those present, the higher men."
"The wonderful culture of the Moors in Spain, which was fundamentally nearer to us and appealed more to our senses and tastes than that of Rome and Greece, was trampled down"
"The skepticism with regard to suffering, fundamentally only an attitude of aristocratic morality, was not the least of the causes, also, of the last great slave insurrection which began with the French Revolution."
"Luther was an impossible monk who, thanks to his own impossibility, attacked the Church, and in so doing restored it!"
"O Zarathustra, by the way in which thou hast given us thy hand and thy greeting, we recognise thee as Zarathustra."
"Verily, ever are we drawn aloft that is, to the realm of the clouds: on these do we set our gaudy puppets, and then call them Gods and Supermen: Are not they light enough for those chairs!"
"He who belongs to it keeps himself well concealed: they may be a small number in whom it lives and is embodied, besides perhaps being men who do not stand upon the strongest legs, in part fatalists, hypochondriacs, invalids, in part persons over indulged, over refined, such as have the to conceal themselves."
"I love the great despisers, because they are the great adorers, and arrows of longing for the other shore."
"and it is precisely because I can read no single word of theirs, without seeing their pretentious poses,"
"Suffering was it, and impotence that created all backworlds; and the short madness of happiness, which only the greatest sufferer experienceth."
"I pointed out that modern democracy, together with its half measures, of which the German Empire is an example, was a decaying form of the State."
"In all ages there have been people who wished to improve mankind: this above all is what was called morality."
"Every honest one's step speaketh; the cat however, stealeth along over the ground."
"alas, only a single individual!"
"Eternal bliss is not promised, it is not bound up with certain conditions; it is the only reality the rest consists only of signs wherewith to speak about it."
"my brethren, I consecrate you and point you to a new nobility: ye shall become procreators and cultivators and sowers of the future;"
"Out of paradise with man!"
"is strange to us, let us confess it to ourselves; our itching is really the itching for the infinite, the immeasurable."
"And just then began the ugliest man to gurgle and snort, as if something unutterable in him tried to find expression; when, however, he had actually found words, behold!"
"To this day a life of this kind is still possible; for certain men, it is even necessary: genuine, primitive Christianity will be possible in all ages."
"blessed with small breast stars, and padded, haunchless daughters."
"Let this be enough for me: I give unto every one mine own."
"But even this hostility betrays the preponderating power of the moral prejudice."
"The results of such a point of view project themselves into a new way of life the special evangelical way of life."
"finally, no worry either on one's own account or on account of others."
"oh, how repugnant are both to my taste!"
"I love him who chasteneth his God, because he loveth his God: for he must succumb through the wrath of his God."
"I use a personality merely as a magnifying glass, by means of which I render a general, but elusive and scarcely noticeable evil, more apparent."
"How charming it is that there are words and tones; are not words and tones rainbows and seeming bridges '"
"Contemptible seem to it the ever solicitous, the sighing, the complaining, and whoever pick up the most trifling advantage."
"Thou thinkest thyself wise, thou proud Zarathustra!"
"Epicurus took the liberty of making on Plato and the Platonists; he called them Dionysiokolakes."
"One repay good and ill; but why just to the person who did us good or ill?."
"When Zarathustra had said this to his heart, he put the corpse upon his shoulders and set out on his way."
"Its fundamental belief must be precisely that society is allowed to exist for its own sake, but only as a foundation and scaffolding, by means of which a select class of beings may be able to elevate themselves to their higher duties, and in general to a higher like those sun seeking climbing plants in Java they are called Sipo Matador, which encircle an oak so long and so often with their arms, until at last, high above it, but supported by it, they can unfold their tops in the open light, and exhibit their happiness."
"We have just studied a code of religious legislation whose object it was to convert the conditions which cause life to flourish into an eternal social organization, Christianity found its mission in putting an end to such an organization, because life flourished under it."
"We must live in hopes!)"
"But it is the same with man as with the tree."
"Hast thou ever known, my brother, the word 'disdain'?"
"God's pity for the only form of distress that invades all paradises knows no bounds:"
"I hope to be forgiven for discovering that all moral philosophy hitherto has been tedious and has belonged to the soporific appliances and that virtue, in my opinion, has been injured by the of its advocates than by anything else; at the same time, however, I would not wish to overlook their general usefulness."
"The psychology of orgiasm conceived as the feeling of a superabundance of vitality and strength, within the scope of which even pain acts as a stimulus, gave me the key to the concept tragic feeling, which has been misunderstood not only by Aristotle, but also even more by our pessimists."
"But where are mine animals?"
"Gentle is Zarathustra to the sickly."
"One must not avoid one's tests, although they constitute perhaps the most dangerous game one can play, and are in the end tests made only before ourselves and before no other judge."
"Renan's forte, precisely like that of a Jesuit and Father Confessor, lies in his seductiveness."
"The man of today I am suffocated by his foul breath!."
"The people have ye served and the people's superstition the truth!"
"To lose the intuition as to the ground upon which she can most surely achieve victory; to neglect exercise in the use of her proper weapons; to let herself go before man, perhaps even to the book, where formerly she kept herself in control and in refined, artful humility; to neutralize with her virtuous audacity man's faith in a fundamentally different ideal in woman, something eternally, necessarily feminine; to emphatically and loquaciously dissuade man from the idea that woman must be preserved, cared for, protected, and indulged, like some delicate, strangely wild, and often pleasantdomestic animal; the clumsy and indignant collection of everything of the nature of servitude and bondage which the position of woman in the hitherto existing order of society has entailed and still entails (as though slavery were a counter argument, and not rather a condition of every higher culture, of every elevation of culture): what does all this betoken, if not a disintegration of womanly instincts, a defeminising?"
"Should, however, the contrariety and conflict in such natures operate as an incentive and stimulus to life and if, on the other hand, in addition to their powerful and irreconcilable instincts, they have also inherited and indoctrinated into them a proper mastery and subtlety for carrying on the conflict with themselves (that is to say, the faculty of self control and self deception), there then arise those marvelously incomprehensible and inexplicable beings, those enigmatical men, predestined for conquering and circumventing others, the finest examples of which are Alcibiades and Caesar (with whom I should like to associate the of Europeans according to my taste, the Hohenstaufen, Frederick the Second), and among artists, perhaps Leonardo da Vinci."
"Hath not the world now become perfect?"
"Morality conceived as Vampirism."
"One thing however do I know, from thyself did I learn it once, Zarathustra: he who wanteth to kill most thoroughly,. '"
"Ah, I have begun my lonesomest wandering!"
"And this is the song that Zarathustra sang when Cupid and the maidens danced together: Of late did I gaze into thine eye, Life!"
"When theologians, working through the consciences of princes (or of peoples, stretch out their hands for power there is never any doubt as to the fundamental issue: the will to make an end, the nihilistic will exerts that power."
"These pariahs of society, these long pursued, badly persecuted ones also the compulsory recluses, the Spinozas or Giordano Brunos always become in the end, even under the most intellectual masquerade, and perhaps without being themselves aware of it, refined vengeance seekers and poison Brewers (just lay bare the foundation of Spinoza's ethics and theology!), not to speak of the stupidity of moral indignation, which is the unfailing sign in a philosopher that the sense of philosophical humour has left him."
"Then he felt inclined to quench a little thirst, and to break off for himself a cluster of grapes."
"What thou doest can no one do to thee again."
"But brooding lay the sun of my love upon me, in his own juice stewed Zarathustra, then did shadows and doubts fly past me."
"Finally, who would venture on a German translation of Petronius, who, more than any great musician hitherto, was a master of in invention, ideas, and words?"
"Supposing, in effect, that man is not just the measure of things."
": for that is my last manly prudence."
"They are recognised by the fact that any such lucky stroke gladdens our senses; that he is carved from one integral block, which is hard, sweet, and fragrant as well."
"He suffers, and his vanity wants him only to suffer with his fellows."
"Species do not evolve towards perfection: the weak always prevail over the strong simply because they are the majority, and because they are also the more crafty."
"But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty; And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are: That no flesh should glory in his presence."
"he was, and that he went curious ways.' '"
"The sick and perishing it was they who despised the body and the earth, and invented the heavenly world, and the redeeming blood drops; but even those sweet and sad poisons they borrowed from the body and the earth!"
"People call this self sacrifice, they praise his heroism, his indifference to his own well being, his utter devotion to an idea, a great cause, a father land:"
"Oh, you noble Stoics,"
"Turning ill and being distrustful, they consider sinful: they walk warily."
"Thus will they be comforted; and like them shall ye also, my friends, have your comforting and new speckled shells!"
"how literally they are merely truths."
"Man should be different!"
"Granting that he deceived himself in this matter; the development and rapid flourishing of German philosophy depended nevertheless on his pride, and on the eager rivalry of the younger generation to discover if possible something at all events new faculties of which to be still prouder!"
"am I responsible for it that both are so alike?"
"An instinct of causality is active in him: someone must be responsible for his being so ill at ease."
"A cavern, became the human earth to me; its breast caved in; everything living became to me human dust and bones and mouldering past."
"The prerequisite thereto was the admission of the fact that the type of the Saviour has reached us only in a very distorted form."
"more independent, more upsetting more wicked."
"All the quaint features of Leonardo da Vinci's work lose their charm at the sound of the first bar in Tristan."
"That no one gives man his qualities, neither God, society, his parents, his ancestors, nor himself this nonsensical idea which is at last refuted here, was taught as intelligible freedom by Kant, and perhaps even as early as Plato himself)."
"If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are."
"loveth it, and with the eye only to feel its beauty."
"Will to love: that is to be ready also for death."
"From that time onward, all my writings are so much bait"
"And if your hardness will not glance and cut and chip to pieces, how can ye one day create with me?"
"This freedom and celestial serenity"
"It was different with Felix Mendelssohn, that halcyon master, who, on account of his lighter, purer, happier soul, quickly acquired admiration, and was equally quickly forgotten: as the beautiful of German music."
"Thus will I die myself, that ye friends may love the earth more for my sake; and earth will I again become, to have rest in her that bore me."
"When the gregarious animal stands in the glorious rays of the purest virtue, the exceptional man must be degraded to the rank of the evil."
"Much found I here called bad, which was there decked with purple honours."
"Other books simply cannot be endured after mine, and least of all philosophical ones."
"In fact there have never been any Christians."
"I do not mean as an illusion, a semblance, a representation (in the Berkeleyan and Schopenhauerian sense), but as possessing the same degree of reality as our emotions themselves as a more primitive form of the world of emotions, in which everything still lies locked in a mighty unity, which afterwards branches off and develops itself in organic processes (naturally also, refines and debilitates) as a kind of instinctive life in which all organic functions, including self regulation, assimilation, nutrition, secretion, and change of matter, are still synthetically united with one another as a of life?"
"This therefore would be absurdum itself as a criterion of truth."
"The objective ones speak."
"Scorn of all pessimism that has existed hitherto!"
", say now, say: of us"
"Light is it, verily, feather light."
"In reality my distrust of Plato is fundamental."
"And once thou art awake, then shalt thou ever remain awake."
", come thou back, Mine unfamiliar God!"
"After all, they have more to do than merely to perceive: in effect, they have to something new, they have to something new, they have to new values!"
"And when one goeth through fire for his teaching what doth that prove?"
"I have already called faith the specially Christian form of shrewdness people always talk of their faith and act according to their instincts."
"It sometimes happens, said a moralistic pedant and trifle retailer, that I honour and respect an unselfish man: not, however, because he is unselfish, but because I think he has a right to be useful to another man at his own expense."
"Did I perhaps learn from it the long clear silence?"
"My concept of Genius."
"All depreciation of the sexual life, all the sullying of it by means of the concept 'impure,' is the essential crime against Life is the essential crime against the Holy Spirit of Life."
"Whence do they come therefore?"
"All the prerequisites to a learned culture, all the methods of science, were already there; man had already perfected the great and incomparable art of reading profitably that first necessity to the tradition of culture, the unity of the sciences; the natural sciences, in alliance with mathematics and mechanics, were on the right road,"
"The whole of Zarathustra might perhaps be classified under the rubric music."
"To be the doctors here to be unmerciful here to wield the knife here all this is our business, all this is our sort of humanity, by this sign we are philosophers, we Hyperboreans!."
"And because in the willer himself there is suffering, because he cannot will backwards thus was Willing itself, and all life, claimed to be penalty!"
"It involves a rapid wasting away of nervous energy, an abnormal increase of detrimental secretions, as, for instance, that of bile into the stomach."
"For at this point the soothsayer interrupted the greeting of Zarathustra and his guests: he pressed forward as one who had no time to lose, seized Zarathustra's hand and exclaimed: 'But Zarathustra!"
"Duller spirits may perhaps only get done with what confines its operations in us to hours and plays itself out in hours in a considerable time: some in half a year, others in half a lifetime, according to the speed and strength with which they digest and change their material."
"My readers perhaps know to what extent I consider dialectic a symptom of decadence, as, for instance, in the most famous of all cases the case of Socrates."
"Open still remaineth a free life for great souls."
"The leading tendencies: We must implant the love of life, the love of every man's own life in every conceivable way!"
"There is not a single passage in this revelation of truth which had already been anticipated and divined by even the greatest among men."
"This culture, which from first to last teaches one to lose sight of actual things and to hunt after thoroughly problematic and so called ideal aims, as, for instance, classical culture as if it were not hopeless from the start to try to unite classical and German in one concept"
"her great art is falsehood, her chief concern is appearance and beauty."
"But that I may reveal my heart entirely unto you, my friends: there were gods, how could I endure it to be no God!"
"To close one's eyes to much, to seal one's ears to much, to keep certain things at a distance this is the first principle of prudence, the first proof of the fact that a man is not an accident but a necessity."
"And when truth hath once triumphed there, then ask yourselves with good distrust: '"
"When a man has a holy life task, as for instance to improve, save, or deliver mankind, when a man bears God in his breast, and is the mouthpiece of imperatives from another world, with such a mission he stands beyond the pale of all merely reasonable valuations."
"A laughing stock, a thing of shame."
"Although so alarmed I had yet to laugh!"
"To remoter worlds shall it be a light, and also to remotest nights!"
"badly they all smell to me, these idolaters."
"Perhaps not one of them is yet alive."
"But why should one deal with such painful matters?"
"Slave morality is essentially the morality of utility."
"The proudest animal under the sun, and the wisest animal under the sun, they have come out to reconnoitre."
"To be true that few be!"
"it belongs to the conception of greatness to be noble, to wish to be apart, to be capable of being different, to stand alone, to have to live by personal initiative, and the philosopher will betray something of his own ideal when he asserts He shall be the greatest who can be the most solitary, the most concealed, the most divergent, the man beyond good and evil, the master of his virtues, and of super abundance of will; precisely this shall be called as diversified as can be entire, as ample as can be full."
"With fifty patches painted on faces and limbs so sat ye there to mine astonishment, ye present day men!"
"The lyricist remained united with the musician for the longest period of time; and the actor with the dancer."
"To everything cleanly am I well disposed; but I hate to see the grinning mouths and the thirst of the unclean."
"My brother, are war and battle evil?"
"He whose fathers were inclined for women, and for strong wine and flesh of wildboar swine; what would it be if he demanded chastity of himself?"
"More uprightly and purely speaketh the healthy body, perfect and square built; and it speaketh of the meaning of the earth."
"Hath an evil beast bit thee, thou unfortunate one?'"
"While she thus appropriates new rights, aspires to be master, and inscribes progress of woman on her flags and banners, the very opposite realises itself with terrible obviousness:."
"The idea, experience, life as he alone knows it, is, according to him, opposed to every kind of word, formula, law, faith and dogma."
"It is thine innocence not to know what innocence is."
"Sharply differentiating itself from Christianity, it puts the self deception that lies in moral concepts behind it; it is, in my phrase, beyond good and evil."
"His instinct accords the highest honour to a morality of self abnegation:"
"The feeling that power increases that resistance is overcome."
"In praise there is more obtrusiveness than in blame."
"It dwelleth too close to the seat of the clouds; it waiteth perhaps for the first lightning?'"
"It was the lack of faith in higher men, it was a Nay uttered against everything that was tinctured with the blood of priests and theologians."
"Above all, people tried to make me see the incontestable superiority of our age in regard to moral sentiment, and the progress we had made in these matters."
"From old Florentine novels moreover, from life: Buona femmina mala femmina vuol bastone."
"In plain English: a stupendous literary fraud becomes necessary, holy scriptures are discovered, and they are published abroad with all hieratic pomp, with days of penance and lamentations over the long state Of sin."
"and let the people and peoples go theirs!"
"A heart weary and flippant; an unstable will; fluttering wings; a broken backbone."
"Or almost necessarily: for there are cases in which such a man shows himself to be stronger than society: the Corsican Napoleon is the most celebrated case of this."
"In such ages Art has the right to be purely foolish, as a sort of vacation for spirit, wit and sentiment."
"I confess there are few books which I have as much difficulty in reading as the gospels."
"There is a point of diseased mellowness and effeminacy in the history of society, at which society itself takes the part of him who injures it, the part of the and does so, in fact, seriously and honestly."
"my brethren, there is much wisdom in the fact that much filth is in the world!."
"Therefore man must be made unhappy, this has been, in all ages, the logic of the priest."
"Is the cross then an argument?"
"Pulchrum est paucorum hominum: goodness is a privilege."
"On one occasion it was the specialist and the Jack Horner who instinctively stood on the defensive against all synthetic tasks and capabilities; at another time it was the industrious worker who had got a scent of and refined luxuriousness in the internal economy of the philosopher, and felt himself aggrieved and belittled thereby."
"But the greater thing in which thou art unwilling to believe is thy body with its big sagacity; it saith not 'ego,' but doeth it."
"Thou feelest that thou must soon take thy leave perhaps and the sunset glow of this feeling pierces through thy happiness."
"Verily, nothing sick or diseased is there in such longing and descending!"
"But science flourishes, on the whole, only under favourable conditions a man must have time, he must have an overflowing intellect, in order to know."
"To mine own secretest Conceptions in clamber?"
"One falls a victim to it in the same way as one falls a victim to cholera; one must already be predisposed to the disease."
"See to it that the life ceaseth which is only suffering!"
"Whoever at present drip, like bulgy bottles out of all too small necks: of such bottles at present one willingly breaketh the necks."
"Such is the language of all fish,' saidst thou; 'what do not fathom is unfathomable."
"Like a cripple become deaf, and blind, and dumb thus have I lived long; that I might not live with the power rabble, the scribe rabble, and the pleasure rabble."
"On one occasion when I felt like this I became conscious of the proximity of a herd of cows, some time before I could possibly have seen it with my eyes, simply owing to a return in me of milder and more humane sentiments: they communicated warmth to me."
"We fight with it, we find out that our only means of enduring it is to create a creature who is able to endure it: unless, of course, we voluntarily dazzle ourselves afresh and blind ourselves in regard to it"
"For there was a good roadstead there, in which foreign ships also liked to anchor: those ships took many people with them, who wished to cross over from the Happy Isles."
"Thou teachest that there is a great year of Becoming, a prodigy of a great year; it must, like a sand glass, ever turn up anew, that it may anew run down and run out:"
"When, however, he ran to the spot where the man lay on the ground, he found a trembling old man, with fixed eyes; and in spite of all Zarathustra's efforts to lift him and set him again on his feet, it was all in vain."
"And after all, truth is a woman; one must not use force with her."
"But this nation has deliberately stultified itself for almost a thousand years: nowhere else have the two great European narcotics, alcohol and Christianity, been so viciously abused as in Germany."
"But that I am fond of Wisdom, and often too fond, is because she remindeth me very strongly of Life!"
"One persuadeth their bowels otherwise; I am not their physician and teacher."
"He knows nothing of that wilful process of deducing from particular cases."
"then wanted ye to come back again!"
"What then is the good of all environment, historical periods, Zeitgeist (Spirit of the age) and public opinion Take the case of Napoleon."
"I mean such an increase in the threatening attitude of Russia, that Europe would have to make up its mind to become equally threatening namely, by means of a new caste to rule over the Continent, a persistent, dreadful will of its own, that can set its aims thousands of years ahead; so that the long spun out comedy of its petty statism, and its dynastic as well as its democratic many willedness, might finally be brought to a close."
"This, of course, is a reference to Wagner's Parsifal."
"Indignant becometh the flame when they put their damp hearts to the fire; the spirit itself bubbleth and smoketh when the rabble approach the fire."
"His love is constrained, his hatred is artificial, and rather a slight ostentation and exaggeration."
"But blood is the worst of all testimonies to the truth; blood poisoneth even the purest teaching and turneth it into madness and hatred in the heart."
"In a formula: deus, qualem Paulus creavit, dei negatio."
"I am affected, not because you have deceived me, but because I can no longer believe in you."
"A small matter if the rough wave foameth and angrily resisteth its keel!"
"The first thing to be remembered if we do not wish to lose the scent here, is, that we are among Jews."
"Otherwise the spirit becomes tame."
"We men desire that woman should not continue to compromise herself by enlightening us; just as it was man's care and the consideration for woman, when the church decreed:"
"In my Genealogy of Morals I give the first psychological explanation of the concepts underlying those two antithetical things, a noble morality and a ressentiment morality, the second of which is a mere product of the denial of the former."
"On the other hand, qualities which serve to alleviate the existence of sufferers are brought into prominence and flooded with light; it is here that sympathy, the kind, helping hand, the warm heart, patience, diligence, humility, and friendliness attain to honour; for here these are the most useful qualities, and almost the only means of supporting the burden of existence."
"Doubt is thus a sin from the start."
"what are the qualities to which it principally owes the fact that it still exists, in spite of all Gods and men, and has hitherto been victorious: these qualities it calls virtues, and these virtues alone it develops to maturity."
"Prayer is not included, and neither is asceticism."
"It is necessary to state whom we regard as our antithesis: the theologians, and all those who have the blood of theologians in their veins the whole of our philosophy."
"That power which no longer requires to be proved, which scorns to please; which responds only with difficulty; which feels no witnesses around it; which is oblivious of the fact that it is being opposed; which relies on itself fatalistically, and is a law among laws: such power expresses itself quite naturally in grandeur of style."
"The moral man,' he says is no nearer to the intelligible (metaphysical) world than is the physical man, for there is no intelligible world.'"
"Thus, steadfast and beautiful, let us also be enemies, my friends!"
"Of all good things the origin is a thousandfold, all good roguish things spring into existence for joy: how could they always do so for once only!"
"A long twilight limped on before me, a fatally weary, fatally intoxicated sadness, which spake with yawning mouth. '"
"After this Zarathustra returned again into the mountains to the solitude of his cave, and withdrew himself from men, waiting like a sower who hath scattered his seed."
"; or, finally, even the complaisant and wanton surrender to the emotions, as has been taught by Hafis and Goethe, the bold letting go of the reins, the spiritual and corporeal licentia morum in the exceptional cases of wise old codgers and drunkards, with whom it no longer has much danger."
"Why doth he not come who hath so long announced himself?'"
"The ego is a primum mobile."
"What is the greatest thing ye can experience?"
"Zarathustra, however, was fond of all those who make distant voyages, and dislike to live without danger."
"Everybody has his own standard in this matter, often between the narrowest and most delicate limits."
"The great disgust at man strangled me and had crept into my throat: and what the soothsayer had presaged: 'All is alike, nothing is worth while, knowledge strangleth.'"
"But let us admit, for the sake of politeness, that blessedness by faith may be demonstrated not merely hoped for, and not merely promised by the suspicious lips of a priest): even so, could blessedness in a technical term, pleasure ever be a proof of truth?"
"it even upsets the stomach."
"The declivity, where the gaze shooteth and the hand graspeth."
"The dew falleth, the hour cometh"
"Thou shalt not lie in plain English:"
"But let us reflect for a moment it is high time to do so."
"something that goes its way like a living touchstone, undistinguished, undiscovered, and tentative, perhaps voluntarily veiled and disguised."
"The word free spirit in this book must not be understood as anything else than a spirit that has become free, that has once more taken possession of itself."
"may have found its way into Human, all too Human."
"To be ashamed of one's immorality is a step on the ladder at the end"
"His hatred of the democratic system of levelling is only a blind; as a matter of fact he is very pleased that this has gone so far."
": would ye also make another lyre lay thereof?' 'Do not talk further,' answered his animals once more; 'rather, thou convalescent, prepare for thyself first a lyre, a new lyre!"
"Ah, mine animals, this only have I learned hitherto, that for man his baddest is necessary for his best, That all that is baddest is the best and the hardest stone for the highest creator; and that man must become better badder:"
"Many too many are born: for the superfluous ones was the state devised!"
"Penalty,' so calleth itself revenge."
"the history of language is the history of a process of abbreviation; on the basis of this quick comprehension people always unite closer and closer."
"I am more particularly anxious therefore to discover an explanation."
"That, however, is a sermon for slavery."
"where is there still a sea in which one could be drowned?'"
"Consequently it no longer comforts, nor saves, nor constrains: what could something unknown constrain us to?"
"Is it not because he hath had to be ashamed too oft?"
"Ah, whose eye hath not bedimmed in this intoxicated twilight!"
"But it is naughty, like a young child; and if I hold not its mouth, it screameth too loudly."
"A question by the way: a pessimist, a repudiator of God and of the world, who A at morality who assents to morality, and plays the flute to laede neminem morals, what?"
"What was it that first made thee grunt?"
"Would that ye were perfect at least as animals!"
"The old God liveth again, Zarathustra, thou mayst say what thou wilt."
"It is characteristic of such an unphilosophical race to hold on firmly to Christianity they its discipline for moralizing and humanizing."
"In the end, however, though silently and secretly, he laughed also at himself: with his finer conscience and introspection, he found in himself the same difficulty and incapacity."
"hath she perhaps overdrunk her drunkenness?"
"The same new conditions under which on an average a levelling and mediocrising of man will take place a useful, industrious, variously serviceable, and clever gregarious man are in the highest degree suitable to give rise to exceptional men of the most dangerous and attractive qualities."
"Nourished with innocent things, and with few, ready and impatient to fly, to fly away"
"Now doth it wish to die, to die of happiness."
", how well do ye know what had to be fulfilled in seven days: And how that monster crept into my throat and choked me!"
"He neither shows himself at the tribunals nor does he acknowledge any of their claims Swear not at all."
"Oh, you do not know truth!"
"Let us confess it, we men: we honour and love this very art and this very instinct in woman:"
"Surveyed from above, this strangest of all facts, a religion not only dependent upon error, but inventive and showing signs of genius only in those errors which are dangerous and which poison life and the human heart remains a spectacle for gods, for those gods who are at the same time philosophers and whom I met for instance in those celebrated dialogues on the island of Naxos."
"On the th September, tremendous triumph; the seventh day; the leisure of a god on the banks of the Po."
"I hope that has been gathered from the foregoing description of the objective spirit?"
"The experience of all disciplined and profound minds teaches the contrary."
"At present, on the contrary, when throughout Europe the herding animal alone attains to honours, and dispenses honours, when equality of right can too readily be transformed into equality in wrong"
"And how could I endure to be a man, if man were not also the composer, and riddle reader, and redeemer of chance!"
"Once did I long for happy auspices: then did ye lead an owl monster across my path, an adverse sign."
"Mankind must set its goal above itself not in a false world, however, but in one which would be a continuation of humanity."
"God is a too palpably clumsy solution of things; a solution which shows a lack of delicacy towards us thinkers at bottom"
"Whence comes this variety within the circular process?"
"It is I, the ungodly Zarathustra, who saith: 'Who is ungodlier than I, that I may enjoy his teaching?''"
"And the warmest south is still undiscovered by man."
"Once blasphemy against God was the greatest blasphemy; but God died, and therewith also those blasphemers."
"To speak in a parable: I dispatch a pot of jam in order to get rid of a bitter experience."
"I have never squandered my strength."
"The last, most attenuated and emptiest thing is postulated as the first thing, as the absolute cause, as ens realissimum."
"Ah, some time or other it will be over with it!"
"in effect, it is high time that we should understand that such judgments must be believed to be true, for the sake of the preservation of creatures like ourselves; though they still might naturally be false judgments!"
"Still fight we step by step with the giant Chance, and over all mankind hath hitherto ruled nonsense, the lack of sense."
"Schumann, fleeing into the Saxon Switzerland of his soul, with a half Werther like, half Jean Paul like nature (assuredly not like Beethoven!"
"My experiences in regard to this matter have been as bad as they possibly could be; I am surprised that I set myself this question so late in life, and that it took me so long to draw rational conclusions from my experiences."
"Virtue itself shall bear us testimony."
"One suspects that this kind of divinity and philosopher perhaps lacks shame?"
"And all my final hearty fervour Up glow'th to Oh"
"Nothing but imaginary causes (God, the soul, the ego, spirit, free will or even non free will); nothing but imaginary effects (sin, salvation, grace, punishment, forgiveness of sins)."
"The movement of Christianity, as a European movement, was from first to last, a general accumulation of the ruck and scum of all sorts and kinds and these, by means of Christianity, aspire to power)."
"So causeth the spirit of gravity."
"She hath her eye, her laugh, and even her golden angle rod:"
"It is time for man to plant the germ of his highest hope."
"In the time of Socrates, among men only of worn out instincts, old conservative Athenians who let themselves go for the sake of happiness, as they said, for the sake of pleasure, as their conduct indicated and who had continually on their lips the old pompous words to which they had long forfeited the right by the life they led, was perhaps necessary for greatness of soul, the wicked Socratic assurance of the old physician and plebeian, who cut ruthlessly into his own flesh, as into the flesh and heart of the noble, with a look that said plainly enough Do not dissemble before me!"
"Thou dost not mean to feed us merely with discourses?"
"and only with human all too human beauty!"
"At such time will the down goer bless himself, that he should be an over goer; and the sun of his knowledge will be at noontide. .'"
"The prophet, the Messiah, the future judge, the teacher of morals, the thaumaturgist, John the Baptist all these were but so many opportunities of misunderstanding the type."
"They shout to one another: 'What is this gloomy cloud about to do to us?"
"what a fine and long hand!"
"In antiquity when a man read which was seldom enough he read something to himself, and in a loud voice; they were surprised when any one read silently, and sought secretly the reason of it."
"The new teachers as preparatory stages for the highest Architect (they must impose their type on things)."
"(That I may speak in parables and halt and stammer like the poets: and verily I am ashamed that I have still to be a poet!)"
"My mouthpiece is of the people: too coarsely and cordially do I talk for Angora rabbits."
"It is especially the sight of those hotch potch philosophers, who call themselves realists, or positivists, which is calculated to implant a dangerous distrust in the soul of a young and ambitious scholar"
"If a man have a strong faith he can indulge in the luxury of scepticism; he is strong enough, firm enough, well knit enough for such a luxury."
"Gold lustre maketh peace between moon and sun."
"Among Germans I am immediately understood when I say, that philosophy is ruined by the blood of theologians."
"Every virtue inclines to stupidity, every stupidity to virtue; stupid to the point of sanctity, they say in Russia, let us be careful lest out of pure honesty we eventually become saints and bores!"
"With all your love for truth, you have forced yourselves so long, so persistently, and with such hypnotic rigidity to see Nature that is to say, Stoically, that you are no longer able to see it otherwise and to crown all, some unfathomable superciliousness gives you the Bedlamite hope that you are able to tyrannize over yourselves"
"And no God concealed beneath it"
"What matter about thyself?"
"But who could do me this service!"
"It was the Germans who caused Europe to lose the fruits, the whole meaning of her last period of greatness the period of the Renaissance."
"Thou surely knowest thine own species best!"
"Disdainfully doth the buffalo glance thereat, nigh to the sand with its soul, nigher still to the thicket, nighest, however, to the swamp."
": on the contrary, he remains a Jew, he remains a god in a corner, a god of all the dark nooks and crevices, of all the noisesome quarters of the world!."
"In order to be able to say Nay to everything representing an ascending evolution of life that is, to well being, to power, to beauty, to self approval the instincts of ressentiment here become downright genius, had to invent an other world in which the acceptance of life appeared as the most evil and abominable thing imaginable."
"I love thy tone, thy drunken, ranunculine tone!"
"From the gateway, This Moment, there runneth a long eternal lane behind us lieth an eternity."
"and his skin covered with perspiration."
"All goals have been annihilated: valuations are turning against each other: People call him good who hearkens to the dictates of his own heart, but they also call him good who merely does his duty; People call the mild and conciliating man good, but they also call him good who is brave, inflexible and severe; People call him good who does not do violence to himself, but they also call the heroes of self mastery good; People call the absolute friend of truth good"
"desire spread this snare for me the desire for love that I should become the prey of my children, and lose myself in them."
"This confidingness, this complaisance, this showing the cards of German is probably the most dangerous and most successful disguise which the German is up to nowadays: it is his proper Mephistophelean art; with this he can still achieve much The German lets himself go, and thereby gazes with faithful, blue, empty German eyes and other countries immediately confound him with his dressing gown!"
"I refer to their laxity in matters historical."
"How she just now speaketh soberly, this drunken poetess!"
"At their words will I now chew a long while as at good corn; small shall my teeth grind and crush them, until they flow like milk into my soul!'"
"From the future come winds with stealthy pinions, and to fine ears good tidings are proclaimed."
"The spiritualisation of sensuality is called love: it is a great triumph over Christianity."
"But my feeling changes and breaks out irresistibly the moment I enter modern times, our times."
"But ye, also, my brethren, tell me: What doth your body say about your soul?"
"And these rooms and chambers can go out and in there?"
"Ye higher men, this God was your greatest danger."
"It is easy to see just what by this logic, was the first thing to come into the world: sin ."
"I myself pertain to the causes of the eternal return."
"And even thee will I whip with my spite!"
"As a blind one did I once walk in blessed ways: then did ye cast filth on the blind one's course: and now is he disgusted with the old footpath."
"Mankind surely does not represent an evolution toward a better or stronger or higher level, as progress is now understood."
"The lightning flash of truth struck precisely that which theretofore had stood highest: he who understands what was destroyed by that flash should look to see whether he still holds anything in his hands."
"Hitherto the lie of the ideal has been the curse of reality; by means of it the very source of mankind's instincts has become mendacious and false; so much so that those values have come to be worshipped which are the exact opposite of the ones which would ensure man's prosperity, his future, and his great right to a future."
"This is an advance, as it was an advance in our fathers that religion as an attitude finally became opposed to their taste, including the enmity and Voltairean bitterness against religion (and all that formerly belonged to freethinker pantomime)."
"the grave diggers met him: they shone their torch on his face, and, recognising Zarathustra, they sorely derided him. '"
"a mass of daubs, at best a piece of mosaic, in any case something heaped together, restless and garish."
"To heart in clamber?"
"All great periods of culture have been periods of political decline; that which is great from the standpoint of culture, was always unpolitical even anti political."
"That is why a goal is now more than ever necessary; and love, but a new love."
"The fact that the people of Germany have actually tolerated their philosophers, more particularly that most deformed cripple of ideas that has ever existed the great Kant, gives one no inadequate notion of their native elegance."
"Ah, the filth of soul in the twain!"
"This providence is over my fate, that I have to be without foresight."
"We men are more human."
"And perhaps I also have a third sight."
"He who knows not how to plant his will in things, at least endows them with some meaning:"
"As regards the good friends, however, who are always too easy going, and think that as friends they have a right to ease, one does well at the very first to grant them a play ground and romping place for misunderstanding one can thus laugh still; or get rid of them altogether, these good friends and laugh then also!."
"I fear thee near, I love thee far; thy flight allureth me,"
"I surpassed myself, the suffering one; I carried mine own ashes to the mountain; a brighter flame I contrived for myself."
"But words are poor, contemptible, stammering words: gladly do I pick up what falleth from the table at your repasts."
"our morality of fellow feeling, against which I was the first to raise a finger of warning, that which might be called moral impressionism is one symptom the more of the excessive physiological irritability which is peculiar to everything decadent."
"In my condemnation of Christianity I surely hope I do no injustice to a related religion with an even larger number of believers: I allude to Buddhism."
"Whoever had studied the Greeks, as that most profound of modern connoisseurs of their culture, Jakob Burckhardt of le, had done, knew at once that something had been achieved by means of this interpretation."
"That every man, because he has an immortal soul, is as good as every other man; that in an infinite universe of things the salvation of every individual may lay claim to eternal importance; that insignificant bigots and the three fourths insane may assume that the laws of nature are constantly suspended in their behalf it is impossible to lavish too much contempt upon such a magnification of every sort of selfishness to infinity, to insolence."
"it is simply his duty."
"My stomach is surely an eagle's stomach?"
"Better to have no God, better to set up destiny on one's own account, better to be a fool, better to be God oneself!'' '"
"Will they be new friends of truth, these coming philosophers?"
"I recognised Socrates and Plato as symptoms of decline, as instruments in the disintegration of Hellas, as pseudo Greek, as anti Greek"
"The philosophy of the dogmatists, it is to be hoped, was only a promise for thousands of years afterwards, as was astrology in still earlier times, in the service of which probably more labour, gold, acuteness, and patience have been spent than on any actual science hitherto: we owe to it, and to its super terrestrial pretensions in Asia and Egypt, the grand style of architecture."
"I was ashamed of this false modesty."
"And have people around you who are as a garden or as music on the waters at eventide, when already the day becomes a memory."
"The creating body created for itself spirit, as a hand to its will."
"On account of those abrupt ones, return into thy security: only in the market place is one assailed by Yea?"
"I do not set up any new idols; may old idols only learn what it costs to have legs of clay."
"They hedged themselves in behind all those conditions under which hitherto a people has been able to live, has been allowed to live; of themselves they created an idea which was the reverse of natural conditions, each in turn, they twisted first religion, then the cult, then morality, history and psychology, about in a manner so perfectly hopeless that they were made to contradict their natural value."
"Here it is of paramount importance to be led into no error by the temptations lying in Christian, or rather ecclesiastical prejudices: such a symbolism par excellence stands outside all religion, all notions of worship, all history, all natural science, all worldly experience, all knowledge, all politics, all psychology, all books, all art"
"These qualities are a matter of race."
"a revelation is necessary."
"The profound sterility of the nineteenth century."
"That which formerly was simply the salt of life, would now be our poison."
"The inability to do this however does not denote any progress; but simply the different and more senile quality of our particular nature, its greater weakness, delicateness, and susceptibility, out of which a morality more rich in consideration was bound to arise."
"Now thou perishest by thy calling: therefore will I bury thee with mine own hands.'"
"I have been understood."
"Should the production of qualities not be subject to any strict laws?"
"Such a man is constantly spying on reality, and every evening he bears home a handful of fresh curios."
"God degenerated into the contradiction of life."
"Drowsily and strangely doth its eye gaze upon me."
"Just now, however, a cry of distress calleth me hastily away from thee.'"
"What do I seek on the height?"
"Of all that is written, I love only what a person hath written with his blood."
"perhaps at their host's expense; and if they have learned of me to laugh, still it is not laughter they have learned."
"We are woven into a strong net and garment of duties, and disengage ourselves precisely here, we are men of duty, even we!"
"Thou, however, Zarathustra, passedst him by, and saidst: '"
"Thanks to a miraculous flash of intelligence on the part of chance, there reached me precisely at the same time a splendid copy of the Parsifal text, with the following inscription from Wagner's pen:"
"They feel as if one wished to peep under their skin with it or worse still!"
"This is true, he said, but I overcame them all."
": they are all merely so many instruments of torture, systems of cruelty, whereby the priest becomes master and remains master."
"It is terrible to die of thirst at sea."
"I refuse to be a saint; I would rather be a clown."
"Gently vibrated and laughed unto me to day my buckler; it was beauty's holy laughing and thrilling."
"All this goes to prove that from our fundamental nature and from remote ages we have been."
"What he wanted was power; in Paul the priest once more reached out for power he had use only for such concepts, teachings and symbols as served the purpose of tyrannizing over the masses and organizing mobs."
"But this we are no longer able to do!"
"Another selfishness is there, an all too poor and hungry kind, which would always steal the selfishness of the sick, the sickly selfishness."
"And Luther reinstated the Church; he attacked it"
"coloured vapours before the eyes of a divinely dissatisfied one."
"Here bristled aloft black and red cliffs, without any grass, tree, or bird's voice."
"No game spoiler hath come to you with evil eye, no enemy of maidens."
"The atmosphere rare and pure, danger near and the spirit full of a joyful wickedness: thus are things well matched."
"And again there are those who sit in their swamp, and speak thus from among the bulrushes: 'Virtue that is to sit quietly in the swamp."
"Full is the earth of the superfluous; marred is life by the many too many."
"Faith, such as early Christianity desired, and not infrequently achieved in the midst of a skeptical and southernly free spirited world, which had centuries of struggle between philosophical schools behind it and in it, counting besides the education in tolerance which the Imperium Romanum gave this faith is that sincere, austere slave faith by which perhaps a Luther or a Cromwell, or some other northern barbarian of the spirit remained attached to his God and Christianity"
"Condemned of thyself, and to thine own stoning:"
"Precisely on this account the Jews are the most fatal people in the history of the world: their ultimate influence has falsified mankind to such an extent, that even to this day the Christian can be anti Semitic in spirit, without comprehending that he himself is the final consequence of Judaism."
"O Zarathustra' said the child unto me 'look at thyself in the mirror!'"
"Many are the suns that circle in barren space; to all that is dark do they speak with their light to me alone are they silent."
"I love not your festivals either: too many actors found I there, and even the spectators often behaved like actors."
"Should one lay hold of them, then do they raise a dust like flour sacks, and involuntarily: but who would divine that their dust came from corn, and from the yellow delight of the summer fields?"
"At his feet, however, two lambs were stretched, which the eagle had with difficulty carried off from their shepherds."
", did I christen 'parasite': it would not love, and would yet live by love."
"The evil man inflicts injury on himself; he would not do so, however, if he knew that evil is evil."
"So be ye warned against pity: there yet cometh unto men a heavy cloud!"
"But everything that suffereth wanteth to live, that it may become mature and lively and longing, Longing for the further, the higher, the brighter. '"
"Then everything becometh false and distorted and monstrous."
"As you perceive, intellect to me means caution, patience, craft, dissimulation, great self control, and everything related to mimicry"
"Is the Socratic irony an expression of revolt, of mob resentment?"
"To live is not that just endeavouring to be otherwise than this Nature?"
"The wrong never lies in unequal rights; it lies in the claim to equal rights."
"As regards Richard Wagner, however, the more French music learns to adapt itself to the actual needs of the the more"
"Conversely, the morality which is antagonistic to nature that is to say, almost every morality that has been taught, honoured and preached hitherto, is directed precisely against the life instincts, it is a condemnation, now secret, now blatant and impudent, of these very instincts."
"This sympathizing invariably deceives itself as to its power; woman would like to believe that love can do it is the peculiar to her."
"open now your ears unto me, for now will I say unto you my word concerning the death of peoples."
"My destiny ordained that I should be the first decent human being, and that I should feel myself opposed to the falsehood of millenniums."
"If I be a diviner and full of the divining spirit which wandereth on high mountain ridges, 'twixt two seas, Wandereth '"
"The saint laughed at Zarathustra, and spake thus: 'Then see to it that they accept thy treasures!"
"And the fool talked thus to Zarathustra: Zarathustra, here is the great city: here hast thou nothing to seek and everything to lose."
"At tragedies, bull fights, and crucifixions hath he hitherto"
"He who knows what goes on in menageries, doubts very much whether an animal is improved in such places."
"O Zarathustra,' said they, 'it is consequently that thou thyself always becometh yellower and darker, although thy hair looketh white and flaxen?"
"Better than thy words express it, thine eyes tell me all thy danger."
"More dangerous have I found it among men than among animals; in dangerous paths goeth Zarathustra."
"Therefore do I wash the hand that hath"
"And false be every truth which hath not had laughter along with it!."
"I warn thee also against myself."
", it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea."
"Among Germans at the present day it does not suffice to have intellect; one is actually forced to appropriate it, to lay claim to it."
"I am, and was ever, your counterpart."
"Who else has found it?"
"I once again for the first time, Richard Wagner's overture to the Mastersinger: it is a piece of magnificent, gorgeous, heavy, latter day art, which has the pride to presuppose two centuries of music as still living, in order that it may be understood: it is an honour to Germans that such a pride did not miscalculate!"
"Then he looked inquiringly aloft, for he heard above him the sharp call of a bird."
"Ye shall love peace as a means to new wars and the short peace more than the long."
"Whithersoever the influence of the theologian extends, valuations are topsy turvy, and the concepts true and false have necessarily changed places:"
"Ye shall only have enemies to be hated, but not enemies to be despised."
"Hence forward everything became so arranged that the priests were indispensable everywhere."
"I insist upon it that people finally cease confounding philosophical workers, and in general scientific men, with philosophers that precisely here one should strictly give each his own, and not give those far too much, these far too little."
"This is the most difficult thing that could ever be undertaken on behalf of metaphysics."
"You ask me what all idiosyncrasy is in philosophers?."
"He saw right through his noble Athenians; he perceived that his case, his peculiar case, was no exception even in his time."
"Faith simply means the refusal to know what is true."
"To him who seeketh to be just from the heart, even the lie becometh philanthropy."
"Thou forcest many to think differently about thee; that, charge they heavily to thine account."
"For the same reasons all those interminable meals, which I call interrupted sacrificial feasts, and which are to be had at any table"
"effect exists there."
"In this transition one punishes oneself by distrust of one's sentiments; one tortures one's enthusiasm with doubt, one feels even the good conscience to be a danger, as if it were the self concealment and lassitude of a more refined uprightness; and above all, one espouses upon principle the cause youth."
"Even the magician laughed, and said wisely: 'Well!"
"And when shall I want it?"
"Sin, any sort of aloofness between God and man, is done away with"
"Thou lonesome one, thou goest the way of the creating one: a God wilt thou create for thyself out of thy seven devils!"
"Whoever has the blood of theologians in his veins, stands from the start in a false and dishonest position to all things."
"all at once there came over Zarathustra a great shame, because he had gazed on such a thing."
"Is not pity the cross on which he is nailed who loveth man?"
"There is perhaps a reason for it, some very great danger, about which the ascetic might wish to be more accurately informed through his secret interlocutors and visitors?"
"With a torch in my hand, the light of which is not by any means a flickering one, I illuminate this nether world with beams that cut like blades."
"Let me be thy guest, Zarathustra, for a single night!"
"It was Heinrich Heine who gave me the most perfect idea of what a lyrical poet could be."
"And the eternal return also of the smallest man!"
"With hostile calm he will first allow every kind of strange and new thing to come right up to him, he will draw back his hand at its approach."
"Not perhaps ye yourselves, my brethren!"
"What did the Hellene secure himself with these mysteries?"
"be to night its guest."
"the fate that is in them."
"All those things of which the age is proud, as, for instance, far famed objectivity, sympathy with all that suffers, the historical sense, with its subjection to foreign tastes, with its lying in the dust before petits faits, and the rage for science, are shown to be the contradiction of the type recommended, and are regarded as almost ill bred."
"For every impulse is imperious, and as attempts to philosophize."
"Who, in sooth, was the first intelligent follower of Wagner?"
"Since I have known the body better' said Zarathustra to one of his disciples 'the spirit"
"In spite of all, what a blessing, what a deliverance from a weight becoming unendurable, is the appearance of an absolute ruler for these gregarious Europeans of this fact the effect of the appearance of Napoleon was the last great proof the history of the influence of Napoleon is almost the history of the higher happiness to which the entire century has attained in its worthiest individuals and periods."
"Do ye not feel the thirst and the hot breath of her love?"
"what was the use of the Romans?"
"I am the harbinger of joy, the like of which has never existed before; I have discovered tasks of such lofty greatness that, until my time, no one had any idea of such things."
"Since humanity came into being, man hath enjoyed himself too little: that alone, my brethren, is our original sin!"
"People were beside themselves with delight over this new faculty, and the jubilation reached its climax when Kant further discovered a moral faculty in man for at that time Germans were still moral, not yet dabbling in the Politics of hard fact."
"Then broke the wings of their spirit; and now it creepeth about, and defileth where it gnaweth."
"Thou ill announcer,' said Zarathustra at last, 'that is a cry of distress, and the cry of a man; it may come perhaps out of a black sea."
"And thou thyself shalt dance to my lays, as my dancing bear."
"Supposing that nothing else is given as real but our world of desires and passions, that we cannot sink or rise to any other reality but just that of our impulses for thinking is only a relation of these impulses to one another: are we not permitted to make the attempt and to ask the question whether this which is given does not by means of our counterparts, for the understanding even of the so called mechanical (or material world?"
"that is at present the noblest type."
"Verily, even for dying have we become too weary; now do we keep awake and live on in sepulchres.'"
"Nothing is more deleterious to this age than the superfluity of pretentious loafers and fragmentary human beings; our universities are really the involuntary forcing houses for this kind of withering up of the instincts of intellectuality."
"And hardly had those words been uttered when there sounded the cry once more, and longer and more alarming than before also much nearer. '"
"In order to be able to say Nay to everything that represents the ascending movement of life, prosperity, power, beauty, and self affirmation on earth, the instinct of resentment, become genius, bad to invent another world, from the standpoint of which that Yea saying to life appeared as the most evil and most abominable thing."
"A little wisdom is indeed possible; but this blessed security have I found in all things, that they prefer to on the feet of chance."
"The passion for God: there are churlish, honest hearted, and importunate kinds of it, like that of Luther the whole of Protestantism lacks the southern."
"This to day, however, is that of the populace."
"In any case there must be some sickness here, we make reply."
"(Paul, Corinthians vi,.)"
"Occasionally, therefore, a will to stupidity."
"Mine eye no longer overfloweth for the shame of suppliants; my hand hath become too hard for the trembling of filled hands."
"what is believed by the people as good and evil."
"The man of faith, the believer of any sort, is necessarily a dependent man such a man cannot posit himself as a goal, nor can he find goals within himself."
"Instead of saying ingenuously I am no longer any good, the lie of morality in the decadent's mouth says:"
"Its requirements and capacities here, are the same as those assigned by physiologists to everything that lives, grows, and multiplies."
"On this occasion, when the soothsayer was longing for wine, it happened that the king on the left, the silent one, also found expression for once."
"And that I testify so much is still not enough for me."
"uplifteth us ourselves; a refreshment is it, to our eyes and hearts."
"after they have been acquired singly through long training and practice, perhaps during a whole series of generations, that lofty spirituality is precisely the spiritualising of justice, and the beneficent severity which knows that it is authorized to maintain in the world, even among things and not only among men."
"A new form of estimating man:"
"And verily, it is the strangest thing in a wise man, if over and above, he be still sensible, and not an ass.'"
"How could such a philosophy."
"But reasons make the populace distrustful."
"Among Germans I am immediately understood when I say that theological blood is the ruin of philosophy."
"In fact it was most remarkable that all one had to do was to transvalue all values, in order to hit the nail on the head with regard to me, instead of striking my head with the nail."
"And with fifty mirrors around you, which flattered your play of colours, and repeated it!"
"To upset that meaneth with him to prove."
"Everybody is the child of God Jesus does not by any means claim anything for himself alone, as the child of God everybody is equal to everybody else."
"it is an experience of a human heart; it is everywhere, it is nowhere."
"For if a man is not even clean, how can he be deep?"
"The banker thinks immediately of business, the Christian of sin, and the girl of her love affair."
"The greatest events and thoughts the greatest thoughts, however, are the greatest events are longest in being comprehended: the generations which are contemporary with them do not such events they live past them."
"Not for all, but for thee, and me, and whoever hath his conscience in his head."
"Not only the poverty of a man's soul and its stuffy air excludes all intercourse with them, but also, and to a much greater degree, cowardice, uncleanliness, and secret intestinal revengefulness; a word from my lips suffices to make the colour of all evil instincts rush into a face."
"The success of Kant is merely a theological success; he was, like Luther and Leibnitz, but one more impediment to German integrity, already far from steady."
"For this should be understood: every natural custom, every natural institution (the State, the administration of justice, marriage, the care of the sick and the poor), every demand inspired by the instinct of life, in short everything that has a value in itself, is rendered absolutely worthless and even dangerous through the parasitism of the priest (or of the moral order of the universe"
"When Zarathustra had left the ugliest man, he was chilled and felt lonesome: for much coldness and lonesomeness came over his spirit, so that even his limbs became colder thereby."
"Let your distinction be obedience."
"Here I only touch upon the problem of the origin of Christianity."
"his booty of truth the wooer?"
"But I bit off its head and spat it away from me."
"why didst turn round?"
"The ruler as the highest type."
"It seems, therefore, that however little we may imagine ourselves to be old fashioned and grandfatherly respectable in other respects, in one thing we are nevertheless the worthy grandchildren of our grandfathers"
"Or they learn to shudder with a learned semi madcap, who waiteth in darkened rooms for spirits to come to him and the spirit runneth away entirely!"
"All the ground trieth to gape, but the depth will not swallow! '"
"Because he can never fathom her depths."
"O Zarathustra,' it whispered scornfully, syllable by syllable, 'thou stone of wisdom!"
"This crown of the laughter, this rose garland crown: to you my brethren do I cast this crown!"
"In place of the immediate certainty in which the people may believe in the special case, the philosopher thus finds a series of metaphysical questions presented to him, veritable conscience questions of the intellect, to wit"
"The world is deep, Six! '"
"Formerly it was thought that man's consciousness, his spirit, offered evidence of his high origin, his divinity."
"Wilt thou go in company, or lead, or go by thyself?."
"Another consideration leads to this idea."
"he is unwilling to forego."
"Not to defend one's self, not to show anger, not to hold anyone responsible."
"Granted that we want the truth: untruth?"
"Thou thyself verily!"
"Like the frog: staccato."
"We all feign to ourselves that we are simpler than we are, we thus relax ourselves away from our fellows."
"When Zarathustra once told this to his disciples they asked him: 'And what, Zarathustra, is the moral of thy story?'"
"Neither should we forget those aural delusions which were religiously interpreted as the demon of Socrates."
"They wish to cultivate her in general still more, and intend, as they say, to make the weaker sex by culture: as if history did not teach in the most emphatic manner that the cultivating of mankind and his weakening that is to say, the weakening, dissipating, and languishing of his have always kept pace with one another, and that the most powerful and influential women in the world (and lastly, the mother of Napoleon) had just to thank their force of will and not their schoolmasters for their power and ascendancy over men."
"Again I remind you of Paul's priceless saying: And God hath chosen the weak things of the world, the foolish things of the world, the base things of the world, and things which are despised this was the formula; in hoc signo the cadence triumphed."
"Blushing up to the very roots of his white hair, he turned aside his glance, and raised his foot that he might leave this ill starred place."
"said Zarathustra, and restrained his affection, 'speak to me firstly of thyself!"
"thou wouldst set thy chair betwixt For and Against?"
"It is, in fact, the first prerequisite to the appearance of the exceptional: it is a necessary condition to a high degree of civilization."
"So it was cry of distress that I heard?"
"I wait until they become triumphant."
"Such a spirit, become free appears in the middle of the universe with a feeling of cheerful and confident fatalism; he believes that only individual things are bad, and that as a whole the universe justifies and, affirms itself He no longer denies."
"Happy even is he who liveth near this wise man!"
"All lack of intellectuality, all vulgarity, arises out of the inability to resist a stimulus: one must respond or react, every impulse is indulged."
"Hath an immodest one ever been answered more courteously?"
"All the young theologians of the Tubingen institution went immediately into the groves all seeking for faculties."
"that by virtue of his suffering he than the shrewdest and wisest can ever know, that he has been familiar with, and at home in, many distant, dreadful worlds of which know nothing this silent intellectual haughtiness of the sufferer, this pride of the elect of knowledge, of the initiated, of the almost sacrificed, finds all forms of disguise necessary to protect itself from contact with officious and sympathizing hands, and in general from all that is not its equal in suffering."
"The man of beliefs, the believer of every sort and condition, is necessarily a dependent man; he is one who cannot regard himself as an aim, who cannot postulate aims from the promptings of his own heart"
"I can see only one who regarded it as it should be regarded that is to say, with loathing; I speak of Goethe."
"A thousand goals have there been hitherto, for a thousand peoples have there been."
"Religions are matters for the mob; after coming in contact with a religious man, I always feel that I must wash my hands."
"Alas, was perhaps the higher man whose cry I heard?"
"The man who has renounced war has renounced a grand life."
"And let us not underestimate the fatal influence that Christianity has had, even upon politics!"
"Have ye ne'er seen a sail crossing the sea, rounded and inflated, and trembling with the violence of the wind?"
"Verily, even the greatest found I all too human!"
"It is the in my veins that maketh my blood thicker, and also my soul stiller.' '"
"Should I not have to be a cask of memory, if I also wanted to have my reasons with me?"
"As a matter of fact, the European feels this tension as a state of distress, and twice attempts have been made in grand style to unbend the bow:"
"This essentially sacerdotal book naturally begins with the great inner difficulty of the priest: he knows only one great danger, consequently God has only one great danger."
"the vulgarity of many a nature spurts up suddenly like dirty water, when any holy vessel, any jewel from closed shrines, any book bearing the marks of great destiny, is brought before it; while on the other hand, there is an involuntary silence, a hesitation of the eye, a cessation of all gestures, by which it is indicated that a soul the nearness of what is worthiest of respect."
"The thawing wind, a bullock, which is no ploughing bullock a furious bullock, a destroyer, which with angry horns breaketh the ice!"
"By the name with which I ventured to baptize them, I have already expressly emphasized their attempting and their love of attempting is this because, as critics in body and soul, they will love to make use of experiments in a new, and perhaps wider and more dangerous sense?"
"As a whole we must try and regard it in the light of a thing as remote as possible from the organic."
"One must not respond immediately to a stimulus; one must acquire a command of the obstructing and isolating instincts."
"And with tears in his eyes shall he ask you for a dance; and I myself will sing a song to his dance:"
"Sultry heart and cold head;"
"A nation is a detour of nature to arrive at six or seven great men."
"Thus spake the old magician, looked cunningly about him, and then seized his harp."
"Be all this as it may, he is certainly the most interesting!"
"Of a lion worthy, Or perhaps of a virtuous howl monkey"
"His death, dieth the consummating one triumphantly, surrounded by hoping and promising ones."
", one might guess to what degree life has disgusted them, by the extent to which they wish to see its image falsified, attenuated, ultrified, and deified, one might reckon the homines religiosi among the artists, as their rank."
"Paul simply shifted the centre of gravity of that whole life to a place behind this existence in the lie of the risen Jesus."
"These stealthy worms, which under the cover of night, mist and duplicity, crept upon every individual, sucking him dry of all earnest interest in real things, of all instinct for reality this cowardly, effeminate and sugar coated gang gradually alienated all souls, step by step, from that colossal edifice, turning against it all the meritorious, manly and noble natures that had found in the cause of Rome their own cause, their own serious purpose, their own pride."
"that I have made an end of them."
"For know that when aloft I will make the honey sacrifice.'"
"Why should you make a principle out of what you yourselves are, and must be?"
"there are too many depths for all anchorites."
"In the face of a world of modern ideas, which would like to confine every one in a corner, in a specialty, a philosopher, if there could be philosophers nowadays,"
"And again there are those who love attitudes, and think that virtue is a sort of attitude."
"Even the profoundest melancholy of such a Dionysus takes shape as a dithyramb."
"But thou fearest, and runnest unto thy neighbour."
"The self overcoming of Zarathustra as the prototype of mankind's self overcoming for the benefit of Superman."
": I am free, 'he' must obey this consciousness is inherent in every will; and equally so the straining of the attention, the straight look which fixes itself exclusively on one thing, the unconditional judgment that this and nothing else is necessary now, the inward certainty that obedience will be rendered and whatever else pertains to the position of the commander."
"The of that which is called sympathy by such groups of visionaries, is always, I believe, the first thing that strikes the eye."
"Too slowly runneth all speaking for me: into thy chariot, storm, do I leap!"
"thus did I learn to slur over words."
"Many a peacock hides his tail from every eye and calls it his pride."
"All evil do I accredit to thee: therefore do I desire of thee the good."
"Illustrious is it to have many virtues, but a hard lot; and many a one hath gone into the wilderness and killed himself, because he was weary of being the battle and battlefield of virtues."
"All those things which mankind has valued with such earnestness heretofore are not even real; they are mere creations of fancy, or, more strictly speaking, lies born of the evil instincts of diseased and, in the deepest sense, noxious natures all the concepts, God, soul, virtue, sin, Beyond, truth, eternal life."
"Without the such as grows out of the incarnated difference of classes, out of the constant out looking and down looking of the ruling caste on subordinates and instruments, and out of their equally constant practice of obeying and commanding, of keeping down and keeping at a distance that other more mysterious pathos could never have arisen, the longing for an ever new widening of distance within the soul itself, the formation of ever higher, rarer, further, more extended, more comprehensive states, in short, just the elevation of the type man, the continued self surmounting of man, to use a moral formula in a supermoral sense."
"What does it matter about all their honesty and reciprocal usefulness, what does it matter about all their mutual good will: the fact still remains they cannot smell each other!"
"How many Germans know, and consider it obligatory to know, that there is in every good sentence art which must be divined, if the sentence is to be understood!"
"I know thee well,' said he, with a brazen voice"
"War (but without powder) between different thoughts and the hosts who support them"
"Hath not bliss come unto me like a whirlwind?"
"Speak, thou nondescript!' '"
"Ah, ofttimes became I weary of spirit, when I found even the rabble spiritual!"
"Inspired ones they resemble:"
"And from all hills there re echoed: 'All is empty, all is alike, all hath been!'"
"only an idea, a modern idea."
"Of a poet and fool the blessedness!"
"And close beside it, there are a hundred lurking places and by places for creeping, fluttering, and hopping creatures."
"Ye Utilitarians ye, too, love the only as a for your inclinations, ye, too, really find the noise of its wheels insupportable!."
"Verily, with a bad conscience doth he stalk over the roofs."
"How did I survive and surmount such wounds?"
"For such vengeance doth my fulness yearn: to such tricks doth my loneliness give birth."
"The God veileth his beauty: thus hidest thou thy stars."
"In vain would any one come to this height who sought here: caves would he find, indeed, and back caves, hiding places for hidden ones; but not lucky mines, nor treasure chambers, nor new gold veins of happiness."
"And thou thyself, thou old pope"
"I will speak unto them of the most contemptible thing: that, however, is !'"
"In every country of Europe, and the same in America, there is at present something which makes an abuse of this name a very narrow, prepossessed, enchained class of spirits, who desire almost the opposite of what our intentions and instincts prompt not to mention that in respect to the philosophers who are appearing, they must still more be closed windows and bolted doors."
"When the kings heard this, they beat upon their breasts and said with one voice: 'We are recognised!"
"the edifice of knowledge begins to tower aloft, invading heaven, shadowing the gods what is to be done?"
"As if Renan had a right to simplicity!"
"This organisation was sufficiently firm to withstand bad emperors: the accident of personalities must have nothing to do with such matters the first principle of all great architecture."
"This compulsion to transfigure into the beautiful is Art Everything even that"
"The things necessary to Buddhism are a very mild climate, customs of great gentleness and liberality, and no militarism; moreover, it must get its start among the higher and better educated classes."
"But it was not strong enough to stand up against the corruptest of all forms of corruption against Christians."
"the apparent world perhaps?."
"The fact that everybody believes that we have is already an objection to the belief."
"What a wretched thing the New Testament is beside Manu, what an evil odour hangs around it!"
"Imperfection, whatever is inferior to us, distance, the pathos of distance, even the Chandala themselves are parts of this perfection."
"the faith that is voiced here is no more an embattled faith it is at hand, it has been from the beginning, it is a sort of recrudescent childishness of the spirit."
"And when we sweat, then do people say to us: 'Yea, life is hard to bear!'"
", I have come that I may seduce thee to thy last sin!'"
"I forbade myself the indulgence of the above feelings, because they were harmful; as soon as my life recovered enough riches and pride, however, I regarded them again as forbidden, but this time because they were beneath me."
"Lo, I teach you the Superman!"
"Too proud art thou to kill these sweet tooths."
"People will feel grateful to me if I condense a point of view, which is at once so important and so new, into four theses: by this means I shall facilitate comprehension, and shall likewise challenge contradiction."
"Something unappeased, unappeasable, is within me; it longeth to find expression."
"For way it doth not exist!"
"This is my first manly prudence, that I allow myself to be deceived, so as not to be on my guard against deceivers."
"Like leavened dough layest thou, thy soul arose and swelled beyond all its bounds."
"At the ice of knowledge will he yet !'"
"They are not a philosophical race the English: Bacon represents an on the philosophical spirit generally, Hobbes, Hume, and Locke, an abasement, and a depreciation of the idea of a philosopher for more than a century."
"Humility hath the hardest skin.'"
"Peace with God and thy neighbour: so desireth good sleep."
"He who giveth risketh to lose his shame; he that is ever distributing groweth callous in hand and heart therefrom."
"If a man has character, he has also his typical experience, which always recurs."
"higher men, distress was it that the old soothsayer foretold to me yester morn, Unto your distress did he want to seduce and tempt me: '"
"When Christianity departed from its native soil, which consisted of the lowest classes, the submerged masses of the ancient world, and set forth in quest of power among barbaric nations, it no longer met with exhausted men but inwardly savage and self lacerating men the strong but bungled men."
"David Friedrich Strauss, author of Das Leben Jesu, a very famous work in its day."
"Nor even that a Spirit called Holy, led your forefathers into promised lands, which I do not praise: for where the worst of all trees grew the cross, in that land there is nothing to praise!"
"With regard to what truthfulness is, perhaps nobody has ever been sufficiently truthful."
"Sometimes I meant to lie, and behold!"
"Better than man doth woman understand children, but man is more childish than woman."
"The spear which I hurl at mine enemies!"
"Even the great Chinaman of Konigsberg was only a great critic."
"The state produced by the excited and profoundly wounded feelings of these men, the suspicion that such a death might imply the refutation of their cause, and the terrible note of interrogation: why precisely thus? will be understood only too well."
"The concept of the Son of God does not connote a concrete person in history, an isolated and definite individual, but an eternal fact, a psychological symbol set free from the concept of time."
"Freedom is the will to be responsible for ourselves."
"We should not deck out and embellish Christianity: it has waged a war to the death against this higher type of man, it has put all the deepest instincts of this type under its ban, it has developed its concept of evil, of the Evil One himself, out of these instincts the strong man as the typical reprobate, the outcast among men."
"The actor, the mime, the dancer, the musician, and the lyricist, are in their instincts fundamentally related; but they have gradually specialised in their particular branch, and become separated even to the point of contradiction."
"They rule, not because they want to, but because they are they are not at liberty to play second."
"No fanatic speaks to you here; this is not a sermon no faith is demanded in these pages."
"Man is something that hath to be surpassed.'."
"German intellect is indigestion; it can assimilate nothing."
"Germany, Germany above all."
"Lead, like me, the flown away virtue back to the earth"
"As cold as Hugo and Balzac, as cold as all Romanticists are as soon as they begin to write!"
"Your marriage arranging:"
"At that time I was twenty years old: now I am too serious for that sort of thing."
"Now must the gentlest in thee become the hardest."
"Give us this last man, Zarathustra,' they called out 'make us into these last men!"
"False shores and false securities did the good teach you"
"The extent of universal energy is limited; it is not infinite we should beware of such excesses in our concepts!"
"Thou makest this cave sultry and poisonous, thou bad old magician!"
"Thou servedst him to the last?'"
"There are few pains so grievous as to have seen, divined, or experienced how an exceptional man has missed his way and deteriorated; but he who has the rare eye for the universal danger of man himself"
"Be of good cheer; what doth it matter?"
"Thou thyself art good, Zarathustra, and better even than a cow!' '"
"That its however, is much too slow and sleepy for the more impatient ones, for those who are sick and distracted by the herding instinct, is indicated by the increasingly furious howling, and always less disguised teeth gnashing of the anarchist dogs, who are now roving through the highways of European culture."
"that they in the same manner, these last great seekers!"
"He who maketh no secret of himself shocketh"
"The profound reverence for age and for tradition all law rests on this double reverence, the belief and prejudice in favour of ancestors and unfavourable to newcomers, is typical in the morality of the powerful; and if, reversely, men of modern ideas believe almost instinctively in progress and the future, and are more and more lacking in respect for old age, the ignoble origin of these ideas has complacently betrayed itself thereby."
"Verily, I like them not, the merciful ones, whose bliss is in their pity: too destitute are they of bashfulness."
"consequently critics they thus brought their orators to the highest pitch; in the same manner as in the last century, when all Italian ladies and gentlemen knew how to sing, the virtuosoship of song (and with it also the art of melody) reached its elevation."
"From the sun did I learn this, when it goeth down, the exuberant one:"
"The error of spirit regarded as a cause, confounded with reality!"
"Alas, if ever the eternally tedious in woman she has plenty of it!"
"I love him whose soul is deep even in the wounding, and may succumb through a small matter: thus goeth he willingly over the bridge."
"It would be absolutely unworthy of a profound thinker to see any objection in mediocrity per se."
"If we grant eternal time we must assume the eternal change of matter."
"In short, you psychologists, study the philosophy of the rule in its struggle with the exception there you have a spectacle fit for Gods and godlike malignity!"
"Adequate was he for his deed when he did it, but the idea of it, he could not endure when it was done."
"As an example of this behold modern marriage."
"For many years, a maxim, the origin of which I withhold from learned curiosity, has been my motto:"
"Your will and your valuations have ye put on the river of becoming; it betrayeth unto me an old Will to Power,"
"Where mine honesty ceaseth, there am I blind, and want also to be blind."
"yet I am So far still from the desert, Even in naught yet deserted:"
"This eternal accusation against Christianity I would fain write on all walls, wherever there are walls, I have letters with which I can make even the blind see."
"To each soul belongeth another world; to each soul is every other soul a back world."
"When the early Christians had need of an adroit, contentious, pugnacious and maliciously subtle theologian to tackle other theologians, they created a god that met that need, just as they put into his mouth without hesitation certain ideas that were necessary to them"
"The most blinding light of day: reason at any price; life made clear, cold, cautious, conscious, without instincts, opposed to the instincts, was in itself only a disease, another kind of disease and by no means a return to virtue, to health, and to happiness."
"The fact that the artist esteems the appearance of a thing higher than reality, is no objection to this statement For appearance signifies once more reality here, but in a selected, strengthened and corrected form."
"Whenever possible, the question why?"
", you must never have read any good French authors, Fontenelle for instance."
"A decade later, and one comprehends that all this was also still youth!."
"For to many is marriage promised, and more than marriage, To many that are more unknown to each other than man and woman: and who hath fully understood to each other are man and woman!"
"There is nothing, Zarathustra, that groweth more pleasingly on earth than a lofty, strong will:"
"And when they call themselves 'the good and just,' forget not, that for them to be Pharisees, nothing is lacking but power!"
"I, Sedulo curavi, humanas actiones non ridere, non tugert, negue detestari, sed intelligere"
"And this brings me back again to France, I have no arguments against Wagnerites, and hoc genus omne who believe that they do honour to Wagner by believing him to be like themselves; for such people I have only a contemptuous curl of my lip."
"assuredly not like Byron!)"
"If, however, faith is above all necessary, then reason, knowledge, and scientific research must be brought into evil repute: the road to truth becomes the forbidden road."
"This book closes with the word or?"
"God, the immortality of the soul, salvation, a beyond to all these notions, even as a child, I never paid any attention whatsoever, nor did I waste any time upon them, maybe I was never naif enough for that?"
"As nihilistic religions, they are akin, they are religions of decadence, while each is separated from the other in the most extraordinary fashion."
"Ah, we were made to remain nigh unto each other, ye kindly strange marvels; and not like timid birds"
"If, therefore, I now calculate from that day forward the sudden production of the book, under the most unlikely circumstances, in February the last part, out of which I quoted a few lines in my preface, was written precisely in the hallowed hour when Richard Wagner gave up the ghost in Venice, I come to the conclusion that the period of gestation covered eighteen months."
"Alas, that it should have to sleep in the hardest and ugliest stone!"
"the best food, the purest sky, the strongest thoughts, the fairest women!'"
"But it is their Their pity is it from which I flee away and flee to thee."
"Pure is his eye, and no loathing lurketh about his mouth."
"Virtue, duty, good for its own sake, goodness grounded upon impersonality or a notion of universal validity"
"Thereupon was Zarathustra silent and wondered. '"
"Your work, your will is 'neighbour': let no false values impose upon you!."
"This little work is a great declaration of war; and with regard to the cross examining of idols, this time it is not the idols of the age but eternal idols which are here struck with a hammer as with a tuning fork, there are certainly no idols which are older, more convinced, and more inflated."
"Enough of a poet and of a female to be able to feel greatness as power; he is always turning and twisting, because, like the proverbial worm, he constantly feels that he is being trodden upon."
"Clearly the human brain cannot be left to imagine the whole series of possibilities: but in any case, quite apart from our ability to judge or our inability to conceive the whole range of possibilities, the present state at least is a possible one because it is a real one."
"Psychologically considered, sins are indispensable to every society organized on an ecclesiastical basis; they are the only reliable weapons of power; the priest lives upon sins; it is necessary to him that there be sinning."
"The concept of guilt and punishment, including the doctrines of grace, of salvation, of forgiveness lies through and through, and absolutely without psychological reality were devised to destroy man's sense of causality"
"With thee have I pushed into all the forbidden, all the worst and the furthest: and if there be anything of virtue in me, it is that I have had no fear of any prohibition."
"It is Nature, not Manu, that separates from the rest, those individuals preponderating in intellectual power, those excelling in muscular strength and temperament, and the third class which is distinguished neither in one way nor the other, the mediocre, the latter as the greatest number, the former as the lite."
"The two physiological facts upon which it grounds itself and upon which it bestows its chief attention are: first, an excessive sensitiveness to sensation, which manifests itself as a refined susceptibility to pain, and secondly an extraordinary spirituality, a too protracted concern with concepts and logical procedures, under the influence of which the instinct of personality has yielded to a notion of the impersonal."
"For the sake of the leech did I lie here by this swamp, like a fisher, and already had mine outstretched arm been bitten ten times, when there biteth a still finer leech at my blood, Zarathustra himself!"
"The teaching of eternal recurrence it is at first oppressive to the more noble souls and apparently a means of weeding them out, then the inferior and less sensitive natures would remain over!"
"And thine over great honesty will yet lead thee even beyond good and evil!"
"(A yearning for utter ruin as a means of enduring one's existence.)"
"On this account the people of one nation understand one another better than those belonging to different nations, even when they use the same language; or rather, when people have lived long together under similar conditions (of climate, soil, danger, requirement, toil) there therefrom an entity that understands itself namely, a nation."
"In thee there is little of the magic spirit. '"
"Christianity was a victory; a nobler type of character perished through it, Christianity has been humanity's greatest misfortune hitherto."
"The German nobility, which is fundamentally a Viking nobility, was in its element there: the church knew only too well how the German nobility was to be won."
"In place of all that pitiable lie reality has this to say: the priest a parasitical variety of man who can exist only at the cost of every sound view of life, takes the name of God in vain: he calls that state of human society in which he himself determines the value of all things the kingdom of God he calls the means whereby that state of affairs is attained the will of God with cold blooded cynicism he estimates all peoples, all ages and all individuals by the extent of their subservience or opposition to the power of the priestly order."
"Buddhism is the only really positive religion to be found in history, even in its epistemology (which is strict phenomenalism)"
"For we have ample reasons for knowing the unscrupulousness of all sectarians when they wish to contrive their own apology out of the person of their master."
"Verily, said he unto his disciples, a little while, and there cometh the long twilight."
"something in which the artist's instinct has no share?"
"I failed to pull the serpent out of his throat."
"Or else, they grasp at sweetmeats, and mock at their childishness thereby: they cling to their straw of life, and mock at their still clinging to it."
"From this time forward things were so arranged that the priest became indispensable everywhere at all the great natural events of life, at birth, at marriage, in sickness, at death, not to say at the sacrifice (that is, at meal times), the holy parasite put in his appearance, and proceeded to denaturize it in his own phrase, to sanctify it."
"In this attitude were they all three silent together, and sniffed and sipped the good air with one another."
"The man who suffers under it."
"Because once saidest, Zarathustra: 'Spirit is life which itself cutteth into life'; that led and allured me to thy doctrine."
"All is unholy to it that is not simple; fain, likewise, would it play with the fire of the fagot and stake."
"In proportion as an ideal world has been falsely assumed, reality has been robbed of its value, its meaning, and its truthfulness."
"Art thou not thyself the wind with shrill whistling, which bursteth open the gates of the fortress of Death?"
"The belief in immediate certainties is a which does honour to us philosophers; but we have now to cease being moral men!"
"For enjoyment and innocence are the most bashful things."
"But of what account is the sympathy of those who suffer!"
"The order of rank develops into a system of earthlydominion: the lords of the earth come last, a new ruling caste."
"Not only do we try to find a certain kind of explanation as the cause, but those kinds of explanations are selected and preferred which dissipate most rapidly the sensation of strangeness, novelty and unfamiliarity, in fact the most ordinary explanations."
"And just as all chronic invalids, all dyspeptics like what is convenient, so the German loves frankness and honesty"
"The objects towards which this lust of vengeance, like a lust of pleasure, are directed, are purely accidental causes."
"Granted, finally, that we succeeded in explaining our entire instinctive life as the development and ramification of one fundamental form of will namely, the Will to Power, as my thesis puts it; granted that all organic functions could be traced back to this Will to Power, and that the solution of the problem of generation and nutrition"
"When, thou well of eternity!"
"Our institutions are no longer any good; on this point we are all agreed."
"there is an abundant, super abundant enjoyment even in one's own suffering, in causing one's own suffering and wherever man has allowed himself to be persuaded to self denial in the sense, or to self mutilation, as among the Phoenicians and ascetics, or in general, to desensualisation, decarnalisation, and contrition, to Puritanical repentance spasms, to vivisection of conscience and to Pascal like he is secretly allured and impelled forwards by his cruelty, by the dangerous thrill of cruelty."
"In reality, however, it is quite otherwise with you: while you pretend to read with rapture the canon of your law in Nature, you want something quite the contrary, you extraordinary stage players and self deluders!"
"The Reformation; Leibnitz; Kant and so called German philosophy; the war of liberation the empire every time a futile substitute for something that once existed, for something irrecoverable."
"must I tell you, that your heart may not harden against the suddenly departing one!"
"And still stranger soundeth my word unto all ink fish and pen foxes."
"What hath happened unto me, my friends?"
"although we resemble heirs and spendthrifts, arrangers and collectors from morning till night, misers of our wealth and our full crammed drawers, economical in learning and forgetting, inventive in scheming, sometimes proud of tables of categories, sometimes pedants, sometimes night owls of work even in full day, yea, if necessary, even scarecrows and it is necessary nowadays, that is to say, inasmuch as we are the born, sworn, jealous friends of of our own profoundest midnight and midday solitude such kind of men are we, we free spirits!"
"And even should we not love each other from the bottom of our hearts, must we then have a grudge against each other if we do not love each other perfectly?"
"thus thinketh every woman when she obeyeth with all her love."
"That is the first thing!"
"it call all the wit that slaves, and hoary headed and weary ones affect; and especially all the cunning, spurious witted, curious witted foolishness of priests!"
"Lessing is an exception, owing to his histrionic nature, which understood much, and was versed in many things; he who was not the translator of Bayle to no purpose, who took refuge willingly in the shadow of Diderot and Voltaire, and still more willingly among the Roman comedy writers Lessing loved also free spiritism in the and flight out of Germany."
"so much so, that I can ascertain physiologically that is to say, smell the proximity, nay, the inmost core, the entrails of every human soul."
"I do not doubt that there is scarcely a single book (the Bible of course excepted) that has worked more mischief, shortened more lives, than this well meant curiosity."
"These circumstances were surely the very reverse of favourable; and yet, in spite of it all, and as if in proof of my belief that everything decisive comes to life in defiance of every obstacle, it was precisely during this winter and in the midst of these unfavourable circumstances that my Zarathustra originated."
"Kant was a native of nigsberg and lived there all his life."
"how ineptly cometh the word 'virtue' out of their mouth!"
"The collapse of a god he became a thing in itself."
"All these things are merely so many temptations, so many deviations from the straight path."
"Perhaps he hath deceived you."
"In the yellow sands and burnt by the sun, he doubtless peereth thirstily at the isles rich in fountains, where life reposeth under shady trees."
"We do the same when awake as when dreaming: we only invent and imagine him with whom we have intercourse and forget it immediately."
"In mydomain they become assured; all stupid shame fleeth away; they empty themselves."
"Hypocrisy as if this were a charge that the early Christians dared to make!"
"did I devise the long clear silence."
"All respect to governesses, but is it not time that philosophy should renounce governess faith?."
"my great pinion rustling longing."
"good and evil verily, he must first be a destroyer, and break values into pieces."
"Those young hearts have already all become old and not old even!"
"Thus spake the peaceful one, and puffed himself and perspired with his words: so that the kine wondered anew."
"What stands most closely related to them, though with a large admixture of Greek vitality and nerve force, is epicureanism, the theory of salvation of paganism."
"Thus speak I to backworldsmen."
"For this remains as I have already pointed out"
"There is no categorical imperative nor any disciplines, even within the walls of a monastery it is always possible to leave."
"So must thou go again into solitude: for thou shalt yet become mellow.'"
"asked Zarathustra, laughing. '"
"Let us be careful in dealing with those who attach great importance to being credited with moral tact and subtlety in moral discernment!"
"There is such a thing as what I call the rancour of greatness: everything great, whether a work or a deed, once it is completed, turns immediately against its author."
"The perfect woman perpetrates literature as if it were a petty vice: as an experiment, en passant, and looking about her all the while to see whether anybody is noticing her, hoping that somebody is noticing her."
"And now hath he struck up an awful, melancholy air; alas, he tooted as a mournful horn to mine"
", That wittingly, wilfully, aye must lie: For booty lusting, Motley masked, Self hidden, shrouded, Himself"
"And are not all things closely bound together in such wise that This Moment draweth all coming things after it?"
"this would mean first and foremost: Let thy neighbour go his own way"
"Verily, a place of healing shall the earth become!"
"From what do I suffer when I suffer from the fate of music?"
"After all, judgments and valuations of life, whether for or against, cannot be true: their only value lies in the fact that they are symptoms; they can be considered only as symptoms, per se such judgments are nonsense."
"But when the dance was over and the maidens had departed, he became sad. '"
"And not only because the commander beareth the burden of all obeyers, and because this burden readily crusheth him: An attempt and a risk seemed all commanding unto me; and whenever it commandeth, the living thing risketh itself thereby."
"If its leading concept, the belief in God, is wrenched from it, the whole is destroyed; nothing vital remains in our grasp."
"who had perhaps never experienced the rapturous ardeurs of victory and of destruction?"
"Finally, in still another place perhaps this is also a holy lie all the orifices of the body above the navel are pure, and all below are impure."
"Death is not a bridge, not a means of access: it is absent because it belongs to quite a different and merely apparent world the only use of which is to furnish signs, similes."
"he who is of type can still go therethrough, but he must stoop!"
"I promise the advent of a tragic age: the highest art in the saying of yea to life, tragedy, will be born again when mankind has the knowledge of the hardest, but most necessary of wars, behind it, without, however, suffering from that knowledge."
"You I advise not to work, but to fight."
"And when they had passed, a pain attacked Zarathustra; but not long had he struggled with the pain, when he began to speak thus:"
"For the stupidity of the good is unfathomable."
"My friends, I will not be mixed up and confounded with others."
"And he who would not languish amongst men, must learn to drink out of all glasses; and he who would keep clean amongst men, must know how to wash himself even with dirty water."
"So called everything unto me in signs: 'It is time!'"
"Here I have got you,"
"all Break up, break up, ye discerning ones, the old tables!."
"But then our body, as a part of this external world, would be the work of our organs!"
"Upward goeth our course from genera on to super genera."
"Thou shalt not know the rest follows as a matter of course, God's panic did not deprive him of his intelligence."
"And we gazed at each other, and looked at the green meadow o'er which the cool evening was just passing, and we wept together."
"a horror seized upon me."
"And many a one who hath come along as a destroyer, and as a hailstorm to all cornfields, wanted merely to put his foot into the jaws of the rabble, and thus stop their throat."
"Nietzsche's name for one accepting his own philosophy."
", that was my last thing to give!"
"Morality is not assailed, it simply ceases to be considered."
", perhaps, Kant especially, gives us to understand by his morals that what is estimable in me, is that I know how to obey and with you it not be otherwise than with me!"
"This is the freedom of all will."
"But in all this there was a wholesale misunderstanding: imagine the kingdom of God as a last act, as a mere promise!"
"you may read my name or the word Zarathustra wherever the text contains the name of Wagner."
"Who could see thy smiling and not melt into tears?"
"Always shalt thou be the foremost and prominent above others: no one shall thy jealous soul love, except a friend' that made the soul of a Greek thrill"
"Can it be that dialectics was only a form of revenge in Socrates?"
"Even the priest knows quite as well as everybody else does that there is no longer any God, any sinner or any Saviour, and that free will, and a moral order of the universe are lies."
"Thanks to that destiny, the type must have been enriched retrospectively with features which can be interpreted only as serving the purposes of war and of propaganda That strange and morbid world into which the gospels lead us a world which seems to have been drawn from a Russian novel, where the scum and dross of society, diseases of the nerves and childish imbecility seem to have given each other rendezvous must in any case have coarsened the type: the first disciples especially must have translated an existence conceived entirely in symbols and abstractions into their own crudities, in order at least to be able to understand something about it, for them the type existed only after it had been cast in a more familiar mould."
"My father, born in died in."
"The German nobility stands outside the history of the higher civilization: the reason is obvious."
"Lo, I am a herald of the lightning, and a heavy drop out of the cloud: the lightning, however, is the."
"Not their love of humanity, but the impotence of their love, prevents the Christians of today burning us."
"One thirsteth for her and is not satisfied, one looketh through veils, one graspeth through nets."
"Christianity is a system, a complete outlook upon the world, conceived as a whole."
"the basis of ethics which has been sought, like the philosopher's stone, for centuries."
"Away from those fabulous songs did I lead you when I taught you: 'The Will is a creator."
"Then, however, he thought of his abandoned friends and as if he had done them a wrong with his thoughts, he upbraided himself because of his thoughts."
"these are preludes of the ruler."
"There above are sheep and sun set stripes:"
"Meanwhile, there is a contradiction between the peaceful preacher of the mount, the sea shore and the fields, who appears like a new Buddha on a soil very unlike India's, and the aggressive fanatic, the mortal enemy of theologians and ecclesiastics, who stands glorified by Renan's malice as le grand ma tre en ironie."
"fancy using the suburban respectability of the Socratic schools as a key to what is fundamentally Hellenic!."
"this is what I called Dionysian, this is what I divined as the bridge leading to the psychology of the tragic poet Not in order to escape from terror and pity, not to purify one's self of a dangerous passion by discharging it with vehemence"
"Out of your wild cats must tigers have evolved, and out of your poison toads, crocodiles: for the good hunter shall have a good hunt!"
"but they also call him good who is pious and a transfigurer of things; People call him good who can obey his own voice, but they also call the devout man good; People call the noble and the haughty man good, but also him who does not despise and who does not assume condescending airs."
"One day Zarathustra severely determines his life task and it is also mine."
"Like cats they curve their backs, they purr inwardly with their approaching happiness, all good things laugh."
"Why is there so little fate in your looks?"
"Think over this saying, mine exalted friend: thou wilt readily divine that in such a saying there is wisdom."
"and it is this: man is something that is to be surpassed."
"Concerning the origin of many systems of morals."
"If mankind never manages to get rid of Christianity"
"He knows not how to get rid of anything, how to come to terms with anything, and how to cast anything behind him."
"Is it not at length permitted to be a little ironical towards the subject, just as towards the predicate and object?"
"Is there not ground for suspecting that all philosophers, in so far as they have been dogmatists, have failed to understand women that the terrible seriousness and clumsy importunity with which they have usually paid their addresses to Truth, have been unskilled and unseemly methods for winning a woman?"
"this, as a possible alternative, is not to be altogether ignored."
"The chaos of the universe, inasmuch as it excludes any aspiration to a goal, does not oppose the thought of the circular process: the latter is simply an irrational necessity, absolutely free from any formal ethical or sthetical significance."
"for he instinctively denies that illness is illness or that lunatic asylums are lunatic asylums."
"'Observe,' continued I, 'This Moment!"
"But what dost thou bring us as a gift?'"
"Even the wisest among you is only a disharmony and hybrid of plant and phantom."
"Punishment must there be, and justice' so thinketh it: '"
": let us not overlook nor undervalue the Neither"
"Thou wouldst wear no raiment before thy friend?"
"This had Zarathustra spoken to his heart when the sun arose: then looked he inquiringly aloft, for he heard above him the sharp call of his eagle. '"
"But the desire of the priest is precisely the degeneration of the whole of mankind; hence his preservation of that which is degenerate"
", now do I fly; now do I see myself under myself."
"God's only excuse is that He does not exist."
"Only degenerates find radical methods indispensable: weakness of will, or more strictly speaking, the inability not to react to a stimulus, is in itself simply another form of degeneracy."
"But down there there speaketh everything"
"Or is it this: To be sick and dismiss comforters, and make friends of the deaf, who never hear thy requests?"
"of that sort only are my readers"
"Thus are ye unaware, also, of the delight of its coldness."
"It is our cheerfulness that people understand least."
"People convert this faulty view of all things into a moral, a virtue, a thing of holiness."
"When one recalls the fact that, among all peoples, the philosopher is no more than a development from the old type of priest, this inheritance from the priest, this fraud upon self ceases to be remarkable."
"When he was young, that God out of the Orient, then was he harsh and revengeful, and built himself a hell for the delight of his favourites."
"The German has no fingers for delicate nuances."
"But this, as I have already shown, is a pessimistic standpoint; it is the evil eye"
"They have never doubted their right to quite a number of other things To express oneself in a formula, one might say:"
"His religion, which it would be better to call a system of hygiene, in order to avoid confounding it with a creed so wretched as Christianity, depended for its effect upon the triumph over resentment: to make the soul free therefrom was considered the first step towards recovery."
"Would you hearken to the words spoken by Zarathustra concerning deliverance from loathing?"
"Under Christianity neither morality nor religion has any point of contact with actuality."
"And like a wind will I one day blow amongst them, and with my spirit, take the breath from their spirit: thus willeth my future."
"We are all of us fine sumpter asses and assesses."
"The eagerness and subtlety"
"There are scientific minds who make use of science, because it gives a gay appearance, and because scientificness leads to the conclusion that a person is superficial they to mislead to a false conclusion."
"Verily, not that ye have served a prince of what account are princes now!"
"Meanwhile my Zarathustra, for instance, is still in quest of such people alas!"
"That would be the highest thing for me' so saith your lying spirit unto itself 'to gaze upon life without desire, and not like the dog, with hanging out tongue:"
"I know the joy of annihilation to a degree which is commensurate with my power to annihilate."
"Long, verily, should we have to wait until some one re awoke thy God for thee."
"Thus do I pray and conjure you."
"It is upon such reasoning that revolutions are based."
"Well have I buried thee in thy hollow tree; well have I hid thee from the wolves."
"For the air here outside was better than with the higher men."
"then only did I hit the truth."
"To be sure, he who never liveth at the right time, how could he ever die at the right time?"
"A haven towards which sail is set?"
"In order to give you some idea of myself as a psychologist, let me take this curious piece of psychological analysis out of the book Beyond Good and Evil, in which it appears."
"At the door of his faith standeth adultery."
"Thou goest straight and crooked ways; it concerneth thee little"
"Finally, however, a happy state of things results, the enormous tension is relaxed; there are perhaps no more enemies among the neighbouring peoples, and the means of life, even of the enjoyment of life, are present in superabundance."
"It was on these two roads that all Zarathustra came to me, above all, Zarathustra himself as a type I ought rather to say that it was on these walks that he waylaid me."
"Not of course, to a priest: for his instincts prompt him to the lie that sickness is not sickness and lunatic asylums not lunatic asylums."
": then did they rush up to Zarathustra, thanking, honouring, caressing him, and kissing his hands, each in his own peculiar way; so that some laughed and some wept The old soothsayer, however, danced with delight; and though he was then, as some narrators suppose, full of sweet wine, he was certainly still fuller of sweet life, and had renounced all weariness."
"peace in uncertainty!"
"Yes, but one recovers it from among the ashes."
"But let us be careful not to see in all this anything more than symbolical language, semantics an opportunity to speak in parables."
"The Greek Sceptics were also called Ephectics owing to their caution in judging and in concluding from facts."
": for properly speaking, there is time on earth for such things."
"Every nation has its own Tartuffery, and calls that its virtue."
"I became weary of the poets, of the old and of the new: superficial"
"Yea, if ye should, ye beauteous friendly ones, Quite take my word: She hath, alas!"
"Is it not enough to suppose degrees of seemingness, and as it were lighter and darker shades and tones of semblance different valeurs, as the painters say?"
"then said I eagerly: 'Ah, yes!"
"I call myself Zarathustra."
"And that I may do the like by day, and imitate and copy its best, now will I put the three worst things on the scales, and weigh them humanly well."
"Ah, how I am weary of the poets!"
"In England too the same belief prevails: but nobody will be surprised at that."
"hath only been to me symbolically spirit; and all the 'imperishable' that is also but a simile.' '"
"I advise not to peace, but to victory."
"Nohl, Pohl, and Kohl and others of their kidney to infinity!"
"That consensus sapientium, as I perceived ever more and more clearly, did not in the least prove that they were right in the matter on which they agreed."
"Piety, the Life in God, regarded in this light, would appear as the most elaborate and ultimate product of the of truth, as artist adoration and artist intoxication in presence of the most logical of all falsifications, as the will to the inversion of truth, to untruth at any price."
"Unspoken and unrealised hath my highest hope remained!"
"And let me thank thee!"
"Fancy blundering in this way, not as an individual, not as a people, but as a whole species!"
"for it ought not to appear at all!"
"Footnote Junker Philosophie."
"The old God, wholly spirit, wholly the high priest, wholly perfect, is promenading his garden: he is bored and trying to kill time."
"It may happen, too, that in the frankness of my story I must go further than is agreeable to the strict usages of your ears?"
"To learn to see, as I understand this matter, amounts almost to that which in popular language is called strength of will its essential feature is precisely not to wish to see, to be able to postpone one's decision."
"But who knows whether I even desire to be read at present?"
"After a while consciousness returned to the shattered man, and he saw Zarathustra kneeling beside him. '"
"With a lying word it feigneth a good conscience."
"He had made everything too beautiful."
"Thou noise in dark streets!"
"And is it that must come some day?"
"Rather live amid the ice than among modern virtues and other such south winds!."
"He values it more particularly as a deliverance from the burning core of the will which is sexuality, in beauty he recognises the negation of the procreative instinct."
"If the band is not to break, bite it first secure to make!."
"His second companions, however they will call themselves his will be a living host, with much love, much folly, much unbearded veneration."
"Thou seekest followers?"
"for that have learned best of us all at present!"
"If stability were possible it would already have been reached."
"And thus spake Zarathustra unto the people: It is time for man to fix his goal."
"It is all over with their freedom: thou teachest and temptest back into prisons, Thou old melancholy devil, out of thy lament soundeth a lurement: thou resemblest those who with their praise of chastity secretly invite to voluptuousness!'"
"Wagner was a revolutionary he fled from the Germans."
"Luther and the rebirth of morality"
"This is so to such an extent, that often after a lapse of time he can no longer endure his own work."
"With suppressed truths, with fool's hand and befooled heart, and rich in petty lies of pity: thus have I ever lived among men."
"I mean the moral value per se, in the typical signs of decline, in the antagonism of the instincts, in selflessness, in the loss of ballast, in the suppression of the personal element, and in love of one's neighbour (neighbouritis!)."
"There is an instinct for rhythmic relations which embraces a whole world of forms (length, the need of a wide embracing rhythm, is almost the measure of the force of an inspiration, a sort of counterpart to its pressure and tension)."
"Christianity sprang from a soil so corrupt that on it everything natural, every natural value, every reality was opposed by the deepest instincts of the ruling class"
"Verily, a goal had Zarathustra; he threw his ball."
"Still art thou a prisoner it seemeth to me who deviseth liberty for himself: ah!"
"However small our piety, if we ever encountered a god who always cured us of a cold in the head at just the right time, or got us into our carriage at the very instant heavy rain began to fall, he would seem so absurd a god that he'd have to be abolished even if he existed."
"But immediately he got up again from the ground, and his countenance became stern. '"
"What child hath not had reason to weep over its parents?"
"Was that a work for your hands?"
"really helps to increase his joy in his own life!"
"Ye constrain all things to flow towards you and into you, so that they shall flow back again out of your fountain as the gifts of your love."
"We are never satisfied by merely ascertaining the fact that we feel thus or thus"
"In my moments of decadence"
"The wonderful Moorish world of Spanish culture, which in its essence is more closely related to us, and which appeals more to our sense and taste than Rome and Greece, was trampled to death"
"He, however, who would be a firstling, let him take care lest he also become a lastling!"
"it cultivates all the serviceable faculties, before it ever whispers a word concerning thedominant task, the goal, the object, and the meaning of it all."
"avian wisdom: 'Lo, there is no above and no below!"
"Zarathustra, however, remained standing, and just beside him fell the body, badly injured and disfigured, but not yet dead."
"Everywhere equality before the law Nature is not different in that respect, nor better than we a fine instance of secret motive, in which the vulgar antagonism to everything privileged and autocratic likewise a second and more refined atheism is once more disguised."
"I mean to say that the love of truth has its reward in heaven, and already upon earth."
"At bottom, Carlyle is an English atheist who makes it a point of honour not to be one."
"Two different things wanteth the true man: danger and diversion."
"Swaddle it up and hold its mouth"
"When, however, he stood over against it, not more than twenty paces therefrom, the thing happened which he now least of all expected: he heard anew the great."
"Imagine making Jesus a hero"
"the fact that the poets of the Veda were priests and not even fit to unfasten Zarathustra's sandal"
"Science is the first of sins, the germ of all sins, the original sin."
"Take heed, lest a statue crush you."
"But as regards the higher man: well!"
"it was that people's last chance of survival wrested from the world at enormous pains, the residuum of its political autonomy: to attack this construction was tantamount to attacking the most profound popular instinct, the most tenacious national will to live that has ever existed on earth."
"; in the lies of the good were ye born and bred."
"One infers here according to the usual grammatical formula To think is an activity; every activity requires an agency that is active; consequently."
"Insanity in individuals is something rare but in groups, parties, nations, and epochs"
"Behold, Zarathustra!"
"For while Copernicus has persuaded us to believe, contrary to all the senses, that the earth does stand fast, Boscovich has taught us to abjure the belief in the last thing that stood fast of the earth"
"Through fear there grew also virtue, that is to say: Science."
"Sin, which means anything that puts a distance between God and man, is abolished"
"The eternal, fatal Too late!"
"I entice thee back; here is smooth ice!"
"Every mistake is in every sense the sequel to degeneration of the instincts, to disintegration of the will."
"Aye, if ye were Gods, ye could then be ashamed of clothing!"
"When Zarathustra heard the wise man thus speak, he laughed in his heart: for thereby had a light dawned upon him."
"On mine honour, my friend,' answered Zarathustra, 'there is nothing of all that whereof thou speakest: there is no devil and no hell."
"a priori Kant asks himself and what is really his answer?"
"there time was my sole contemporary."
"my soul, I have taught thee to say 'to day' as 'once on a time' and 'formerly,' and to dance thy measure over"
"But now learn this likewise: the Will itself is still a prisoner."
"and therefore, as we understand the matter, only one kind of human morality, beside which, before which, and after which many other moralities, and above all moralities, are or should be possible."
"The holy people which had retained only priestly values and priestly names for all things, and which, with a logical consistency that is terrifying, had divorced itself from everything still powerful on earth as if it were unholy, worldly, sinful, this people created a final formula for its instinct which was consistent to the point of self suppression; as Christianity it denied even the last form of reality, the holy people, the chosen people, Jewish reality itself."
"Yea, thou art still for me the demolisher of all graves: Hail to thee, my Will!"
"However small an amount of loving piety we might possess, a god who cured us in time of a cold in the nose, or who arranged for us to enter a carriage just at the moment when a cloud burst over our heads, would be such an absurd God, that he would have to be abolished, even if he existed."
"O'ershadowed is still the sense of his eye."
"And he who proclaimeth the wholesome and holy, and selfishness blessed, verily, he, the prognosticator, speaketh also what he knoweth: !'"
"There is ice in their laughter.'."
": it was believed here to be self evident that a bad man was all at once turned into a saint, a good man."
"Here, however, a foaming fool, with extended hands, sprang forward to him and stood in his way."
"he always found in things only that which he had laid in them?"
"Perhaps we are still discovering thedomain of our invention just here, thedomain where even we can still be original, probably as parodists of the world's history and as God's Merry Andrews, perhaps,"
"(With stupidity even the gods themselves struggle in vain)."
"One may indeed lie with the mouth; but with the accompanying grimace one nevertheless tells the truth."
"We insist upon the fact that the world as a sum of energy must not be regarded as unlimited we forbid ourselves the concept infinite energy, because it seems incompatible with the concept energy."
"For as the proverb of Zarathustra saith: 'One thing is more necessary than the other.'"
"By seeking the beginnings of things, a man becomes a crab."
"every sacrifice before the Moloch of abstraction."
"Little doth woman understand otherwise about honour."
"Would it be possible to regard ourselves as accidentally thrust into this corner of the mechanical universal arrangement?"
"But at this stage I should become utterly enigmatical to German readers."
"It was thy good fortune to be laughed at: and verily thou spakest like a buffoon."
"Too many heavy words and worths"
"These are the two physiological realities upon and out of which the doctrine of salvation has sprung."
"He must be esteemed for his good as well as for his evil qualities."
"The whole of my Zarathustra is a dithyramb in honour of solitude, or, if I have been understood, in honour of purity."
"At last he said sorrowfully: 'There hath become smaller!"
"Here aloft can I now speak freer than in front of mountain caves and anchorites'domestic animals."
"Beware lest in the end a narrow faith capture thee, a hard, rigorous delusion!"
"Returning from these most strange of all pursuits Zarathustra comes back with love to the narrowest and smallest things, he blesses all his experiences and dies with a blessing on his lips."
"Among my acquaintances I have a number of experimental subjects, in whom I see depicted all the different, and instructively different, reactions which follow upon a perusal of my works."
"Wherever sympathy (fellow suffering) is preached nowadays and, if I gather rightly, no other religion is any longer preached"
"For the Platonic dialogue this revoltingly self complacent and childish kind of dialectics to exercise any charm over you"
"Here, however, isdomain and jurisdiction: what may ye be seeking in mydomain?"
"said Zarathustra in astonishment to his heart, and hid himself hastily behind a thicket."
"said he, and was astonished beyond measure."
"What must one day come and may not pass by?"
"Now do I await redemption that I may go unto them for the last time."
"the tenth Pythian ode."
"The experience of all strict and profound minds teaches the reverse."
"Perhaps our great virtue of the historical sense is in necessary contrast to taste, at least to the very bad taste; and we can only evoke in ourselves imperfectly, hesitatingly, and with compulsion the small, short, and happy godsends and glorifications of human life as they shine here and there: those moments and marvelous experiences when a great power has voluntarily come to a halt before the boundless and infinite, when a super abundance of refined delight has been enjoyed by a sudden checking and petrifying, by standing firmly and planting oneself fixedly on still trembling ground."
"They made signs in blood along the way that they went, and their folly taught them that the truth is proved by blood."
"May they be decoyed out of this life by the 'life eternal'! '"
"The hesitation of the disciples."
"A host of painful questions might be raised on this point German nobility scarcely takes a place in the history of higher culture: the reason of this is obvious; Christianity, alcohol the two great means of corruption."
"And now do they look at me and laugh: and while they laugh they hate me too."
"The mightiest men have hitherto always bowed reverently before the saint, as the enigma of self subjugation and utter voluntary privation why did they thus bow?"
"My contention is that all the highest values of mankind lack this will, that the values of decline and of nihilism are exercising the sovereign power under the cover of the holiest names."
"(the first symptoms of which are already specified documentarily in a thoughtful letter of Galiani to Madame d'Epinay)"
"O Zarathustra, thy fruits are ripe, but thou art not ripe for thy fruits!"
", that has done an unutterable amount of harm."
"Many die too late, and some die too early."
"Whence cometh that which thou snortest up?"
"I am of to day and heretofore, said he thereupon; but something is in me that is of the morrow, and the day following, and the hereafter."
"What wonder even that ye have failed and only half succeeded, ye half shattered ones!"
"He stands too high for that!"
"A man was he, and only a poor fragment of a man and ego."
"The force of illusion reaches its highest here, and so does the capacity for sweetening, for transfiguring."
"Up to the present Christian morality has been the Circe of all thinkers they stood at her service."
"He who hath always much indulged himself, sickeneth at last by his much indulgence."
"I am weary of my wisdom, like the bee that hath gathered too much honey; I need hands outstretched to take it."
"The moon is cool, the wind is still."
"Now will children's laughter ever from coffins flow; now will a strong wind ever come victoriously unto all mortal weariness: of this thou art thyself the pledge and the prophet!"
"Like the sun will also Zarathustra go down:"
"said then the old pope, with intent ears; 'O Zarathustra, thou art more pious than thou believest, with such an unbelief!"
"Thou art angry, fire dog:"
"Then learnedst thou,' interrupted Zarathustra, 'how much harder it is to give properly than to take properly, and that bestowing well is an the last, subtlest master art of kindness.' '"
"This is, however, my third manly prudence: I am not put out of conceit with the by your timorousness."
"This is in the last instance a question of taste, if it has not really been a question of conscience."
"Nobody will very readily regard a doctrine as true merely because it makes people happy or virtuous excepting, perhaps, the amiable Idealists, who are enthusiastic about the good, true, and beautiful, and let all kinds of motley, coarse, and good natured desirabilities swim about promiscuously in their pond."
"Thou goest the way to thy greatness: it must now be thy best courage that there is no longer any path behind thee!"
"In addition to this, the contemplation of the saint suggested to them a suspicion:"
"Man shall be trained for war, and woman for the recreation of the warrior: all else is folly."
"These are fine far away things: at them sheep's claws shall not grasp!."
"Verily, ye could wear no better masks, ye present day men, than your own faces!"
"The selecting and disciplining influence destructive, as well as creative and fashioning which can be exercised by means of religion is manifold and varied, according to the sort of people placed under its spell and protection."
"No modest form of immodesty!"
"But this we forget on hearing tones; how delightful it is that we forget!"
"I have not yet taken one single step before the public eye, which did not compromise me: that is my criterion of a proper mode of action."
"I have a contrary feeling when I read the Code of Manu, an incomparably more intellectual and superior work, which it would be a sin against the intelligence to so much as name in the same breath with the Bible."
"The virtues of the common man would perhaps mean vice and weakness in a philosopher; it might be possible for a highly developed man, supposing him to degenerate and go to ruin, to acquire qualities thereby alone, for the sake of which he would have to be honoured as a saint in the lower world into which he had sunk."
"With thee did I unlearn the belief in words and worths and in great names."
"One must, however, go still further, and also declare war, relentless war to the knife, against the atomistic requirements which still lead a dangerous after life in places where no one suspects them, like the more celebrated metaphysical requirements one must also above all give the finishing stroke to that other and more portentous atomism which Christianity has taught best and longest,"
"Have not we ourselves been that noble posterity"
"But afterwards coming back to the situation, he grasped the hand of the magician, and said, full of politeness and policy: 'Well!"
"Reason at any cost, as a dangerous, life undermining force."
"That after all is no reason for honouring it the more."
"I will run alone, so that it may again become bright around me."
"There is no sorer misfortune in all human destiny, than when the mighty of the earth are not also the first men."
"it was a pious, strange litany in praise of the adored and censed ass."
"The definition of morality; Morality is the idiosyncrasy of decadents, actuated by a desire to avenge themselves with success upon life."
"But the criminal is a decadent?"
"I do not speak to you as I speak to the people."
"Him whom I love, I love better in winter than in summer; better do I now mock at mine enemies, and more heartily,"
"Not the modern man, surely?"
"Starting out from dreamland, we find that to any definite sensation, like that produced by a distant cannon shot for instance, we are wont to ascribe a cause after the fact (very often quite a little romance in which the dreamer himself is, of course, the hero)."
"But let this mean Will to Truth unto you, that everything be transformed into the humanly conceivable, the humanly visible, the humanly sensible!"
"In this treatise, the historical sense, of which this century is so proud, is for the first time recognised as sickness, as a typical symptom of decay."
"Against this resentment the invalid has only one great remedy I call it Russian fatalism, that fatalism which is free from revolt, and with which the Russian soldier, to whom a campaign proves unbearable, ultimately lays himself down in the snow."
"when, for instance, after the manner of Parisian novelists, he goes in for note book psychology on a large and small scale?"
"All overwhelmed in a night, but not by a convulsion of nature!"
"In the end things must be as they are and have always been the great things remain for the great, the abysses for the profound, the delicacies and thrills for the refined, and, to sum up shortly, everything rare for the rare."
"Ye had not yet sought yourselves: then did ye find me."
"Verily to the loftiest heights did I need to fly, to find once more the spring of joyfulness."
"What is needed is a Saviour."
"Obversely, however, the charm of the Platonic mode of thought, which was an mode, consisted precisely in to obvious sense evidence perhaps among men who enjoyed even stronger and more fastidious senses than our contemporaries, but who knew how to find a higher triumph in remaining masters of them: and"
"They have no reason to wait, as those men had who believed in eternal souls, in eternal development and eternal amelioration."
"Faith, as an imperative, vetoes science in praxi lying at any price."
"Let the friend be the festival of the earth to you, and a foretaste of the Superman."
"For only he who is man enough, will in woman."
"Do like unto the wind"
"The early Church, as everyone knows, certainly did wage war against the intelligent, in favour of the poor in spirit"
"The sense of the tragic increases and declines with sensuousness."
"We no longer value ourselves sufficiently highly when we communicate our soul's content."
"Descending life, the decay of all organising power that is to say, of all that power which separates, cleaves gulfs, and establishes rank above and below, formulated itself in modern sociology as the ideal."
"What the Gospels make instinctive is precisely the reverse of all heroic struggle, of all taste for conflict: the very incapacity for resistance is here converted into something moral: resist not evil!"
"On the other hand, I am perhaps more German than modern Germans mere Imperial Germans can hope to be, I, the last anti political German."
"The life, the example, the teaching, the death of Christ, the meaning and the law of the whole gospels"
"Then he sighed and spake thus to his heart: 'Would that I were wiser!"
"From German heart came this vexed ululating?"
"Meanwhile the organising idea, which is destined to become master, grows and continues to grow into the depths, it begins to command, it leads you slowly back from your deviations and aberrations, it prepares individual qualities and capacities, which one day will make themselves felt as indispensable to the whole of your task, step by step"
"When woman possesses masculine virtues, she is enough to make you run away."
"bingen School to get an understanding of what German philosophy is at bottom a very artful form of theology."
"Here, again, according to the extent to which a spirit is sui generis, the limits of that which he can allow himself in other words, the limits of that which is beneficial to him become more and more confined."
"When, after having written it down, I went out into the open that morning, I was greeted by the most beautiful day I had ever seen in the Upper Engadine clear, glowing with colour, and presenting all the contrasts and all the intermediary gradations between ice and the south."
"Or they sit all day at swamps with angle rods, and on that account think themselves but whoever fisheth where there are no fish, I do not even call him superficial!"
"Respectable do ye there stand, and stiff, and with straight backs, ye famous wise ones!"
"And many a one becometh transparent to us, but still we can by no means penetrate him."
"It disliketh to be summoned sleep, the lord of the virtues!"
"Now gloweth the sun upon him, and the dogs lick at his sweat: but he lieth there in his obstinacy and preferreth to languish: A span breadth from his goal, to languish!"
"It flows broad and full: and suddenly there is a moment of inexplicable hesitation, like a gap that opens between cause and effect, an oppression that makes us dream, almost a nightmare; but already it broadens and widens anew, the old stream of delight the most manifold delight, of old and new happiness; including the joy of the artist in himself, which he refuses to conceal, his astonished, happy cognizance of his mastery of the expedients here employed, the new, newly acquired, imperfectly tested expedients of art which he apparently betrays to us."
"this is his proprium; by virtue of this he is and remains interesting."
"Ye tell me, 'Life is hard to bear.'"
"I serve, thou servest, we serve' so prayeth all appointable virtue to the prince: that the merited star may at last stick on the slender breast!"
"But there is nothing outside the whole!"
"Maybe that I am even envious of Stendhal?"
"We are hyperboreans, we know well enough how far outside the crowd we stand."
"Do ye not see it, the rainbow and the bridges of the Superman?"
"But like infection is the petty thought: it creepeth and hideth, and wanteth to be nowhere until the whole body is decayed and withered by the petty infection."
"thought Zarathustra in his astonished heart, and slowly seated himself on the big stone which lay close to the exit from his cave."
"Concerning heroic greatness as the only state of pioneers."
"my brethren, have ye also understood this word?"
"Inventors of figures and phantoms shall they be in their hostilities; and with those figures and phantoms shall they yet fight with each other the supreme fight!"
"Every book becomes clean, after one has just read the New Testament: for instance, immediately after laying down St Paul, I read with particular delight that most charming and most wanton of scoffers, Petronius, of whom someone might say what Domenico Boccaccio wrote to the Duke of Parma about sar Borgia: tutto festo immortally healthy, immortally cheerful and well constituted."
"But thy lame foot is also with thee on horseback!"
"Then he spake thus: Man is a rope stretched between the animal and the Superman a rope over an abyss."
"For a long while this was the capital problem."
"But I never believed in the people when they spake of great men"
"Who is going to say:"
"Are ye stout hearted?"
", I began to reflect upon the fundamental absurdity of my life Idealism."
"One scarcely believes one's ears, even supposing one believes Plato."
"With a feeling of great reverence"
"The noble and brave who think thus are the furthest removed from the morality which sees precisely in sympathy, or in acting for the good of others, or in the characteristic of the moral; faith in oneself, pride in oneself, a radical enmity and irony towards selflessness, belong as definitely to noble morality, as do a careless scorn and precaution in presence of sympathy and the warm heart."
"they evidently appear too rarely, they are so improbable at all times!"
"Paul even preached it as a reward."
"Intelligently doth the body purify itself; attempting with intelligence"
"all these things are the gift of this year, and even of its last quarter."
"Yonder is the grave island, the silent isle; yonder also are the graves of my youth."
"My recreation, my predilection, my cure, after all Platonism, has always been Thucydides."
"I am cruel, thou bleedest what meaneth thy praise of my drunken cruelty? '"
"For what is not, cannot will; that, however, which is in existence how could it still strive for existence!"
"The concept politics then becomes elevated entirely to the sphere of spiritual warfare."
"Thus spake the wanderer who called himself Zarathustra's shadow; and before any one answered him, he had seized the harp of the old magician, crossed his legs, and looked calmly and sagely around him: with his nostrils, however, he inhaled the air slowly and questioningly, like one who in new countries tasteth new foreign air."
"And all that is now to be at an end?"
"They are lacking in the mere idea of what constitutes a book."
"When Zarathustra spake these sayings, he stood nigh to the entrance of his cave; with the last words, however, he slipped away from his guests, and fled for a little while into the open air. '"
"Yonder where the storms rush down into the sea, and the snout of the mountain drinketh water, shall each on a time have"
"But this is a symptom of decadence: our modern notion of freedom is one proof the more of the degeneration of instinct."
"Cast but your pure eyes into the well of my delight, my friends!"
"I unlearned long ago to have consideration for long ears."
"God on the cross is man always to miss the frightful inner significance of this symbol?"
"it will have difficulty."
"Nothing is less Greek than the cobweb spinning with concepts by an anchorite, amor intellectualis dei after the fashion of Spinoza."
"I still remained a little doubtful about Heraclitus, in whose presence, alone, I felt warmer and more at ease than anywhere else."
"What, after all, is ignobleness?"
"he is serene, from lack of trouble, but from lack of capacity for grasping and dealing with trouble The habitual complaisance with respect to all objects and experiences, the radiant and impartial hospitality with which he receives everything that comes his way, his habit of inconsiderate good nature, of dangerous indifference as to Yea and Nay: alas!"
"Now I would fain put the decisive question: is there any difference at all between a lie and a conviction?"
"The ignorant, to be sure, the people they are like a river on which a boat floateth along: and in the boat sit the estimates of value, solemn and disguised."
"They are glad in their inmost heart that there is a standard according to which those who are over endowed with intellectual goods and privileges, are equal to them, they contend for the equality of all before God, and almost the belief in God for this purpose."
"Ye say ye believe in Zarathustra?"
"How much of ransom gold?"
"Joy deeper still than grief can be: Nine! '"
"The third alternative is lacking: a man must be both a philosopher."
"Whence came all the rejoicing with which the appearance of Kant was greeted by the scholastic world of Germany, three quarters of which consist of clergymen's and schoolmasters' sons?"
"With hunchbacks one may well speak in a hunchbacked way!' '"
"I do not even take the German kind into consideration."
"Nevertheless that is the normal Dionysian state, and in any case its primitive state."
"A psychologist, on the other hand, puts the question: what does all art do?"
"In one night it became merely a memory!"
"They are by no means enemies of religious customs; should certain circumstances, State affairs perhaps, require their participation in such customs, they do what is required, as so many things are done with a patient and unassuming seriousness, and without much curiosity or discomfort; they live too much apart and outside to feel even the necessity for a or in such matters."
"The proof by power, thus assumed, is actually no more at bottom than a belief that the effects which faith promises will not fail to appear."
