"x"
"And clearly they influence, or at least make more difficult, the analysis of the motivation of science."
"Did our argu mentation grasp not yet being and the ahead of itself' in a genuinely existential sense?"
"In so far as a man's sexual history provides a key to his life, it is because in his sexuality is projected his manner of being towards the world, that is, towards time and other men."
"Because in accordance with its existential meaning, understanding is the potentiality for being of Dasein itself, the ontological presuppositions of historiographical knowledge transcend in principle the idea of rigor of the most exact sciences."
"How can a component part of the world, its human subjectivity, constitute the whole world, namely, constitute it as its intentional formation, one which has always already become what it is and continues to develop, formed by the universal interconnection of intentionally accomplishing subjectivity, while the latter, the subjects accomplishing in cooperation, are themselves only a partial formation within the total accomplishment?"
"space between them amounted to nothing."
"there are merely motives, we have merely a hold on time and not full possession of it but"
"But by this very fact it betrays its own descriptions."
"We understand the light of this clearedness only if we do not look for an innate, objectively present power, but rather question the whole constitution of being of Dasein, care, as to the unified ground of its existential possibility."
"But is the question of what the call says not answered more easily and certainly by the simple reference to what we generally hear or fail to hear in any experience of conscience: namely, that the call addresses Dasein as guilty or, as in the warning conscience, refers to a possible guilt or as a good conscience, confirms that one is cons cious of no guilt"
"In each case we are in the realm of abstraction, because we remain torn between the in itself and the for itself."
"But when Wann are we?"
"It would make no sense at all to doubt its being."
"But to the extent that in this discoveredness, as a discoveredness of. ."
"To the extent it is present in unconcealment, everything presences, in its own way, to everything else."
"In the patient, 'this life is enclosed in narrower limits, and, compared to the normal subject's perceived world, it moves in smaller and more restricted circles."
"is formally determined by something in the face of which one is anxious and something about which one is anxious."
"Every great philosopher continues to have his effect in all subsequent historical periods; he exerts an influence."
"Space is the undifferentiated outside one another of the multiplicity of points."
"Namely: in wonder over this ego, first discovered in the epoche, he himself asks what kind of an ego it is, whether the ego is the human being, the sensibly intuited human being of everyday life."
"I can inquire into my development and that of others; I can thematically pursue history, society's memory, so to speak but all such reflection remains within transcendental naivete; it is the performance of the transcendental world apperception which is, so to speak, ready made, while the transcendental correlate.e., the (immediately active or sedimented) functioning intentionality, which is the universal apperception, constitutive of all particular apperceptions, giving them the ontic sense of psychic experiences Erlebnisse of this and that human being remains completely hidden."
"In all seriousness, I think that an objective science of the spirit, an objective theory of the soul objective in the sense that it attributes to souls, to personal communities, inexistence in the forms of space time has never existed and will never exist."
"Rather, what comes to explicit appearance first and only through the work is the equipmcntal being of the equipment."
"Of course this does not take place by erecting a sheltering defense around the defenseless; for in that case a defense would be set up only in those places where it was absent."
"One possibility of being of Dasein is to give ontic information about itself as a being."
"that is, in the mode of an attunement."
"If we say that the basic meaning of logos is speech, this literal translation becomes valid only when we define what speech itself means."
"Let us suppose that I have a certain style of living, being at the mercy of booms and slumps, not being free to do as I like, receiving a weekly wage, having no control over either the conditions or the products of my work, and consequently feeling a stranger in my factory, my nation and my life."
"The time has already become so desolate that it is no longer able to see the default of C'.od as a default."
"which is, at all times, indubitably representable and represented."
"Both pure tactile and pure visual experience, with its space of juxtaposition and its represented spaces, are products of analysis."
"N'ow because this presentation has for its object only phe nomenal knowledge, the presentation itself seems not to be science. ."
"Both idealism and objective thinking fail to pin down the coming into being of class consciousness, the former because it deduces actual existence from consciousness, the latter because it derives consciousness from de facto existence, and both because they overlook the relationship of motivation."
"Yet are we also the forerunners of the dawn of an altogether different age which has left behind today's historiographical representations of history?"
"ve realism of its theory of knowledge"
"Bringing the surrounding world near in circumspect deliberation has the existential meaning of making present."
"Only as things willed are they what wills in the will, each in its own way."
"In this possibility, Dasein is concerned about its being in the world absolutely."
"when the colour is at its richest, the form is at its most complete'."
"The union of soul and body is not an amalgamation between two mutually external terms, subject and object, brought about by arbitrary decree."
"If the sole experience of the subject is the one which I gain by coinciding with it, if the mind, by definition, eludes 'the outside spectator' and can be recognized only from within, my cogito is necessarily unique, and cannot be 'shared in' by another."
"the ego that is in the world and endures for a time (a time that is measured by empirically calibrated instruments)."
"If there is not endless doubt, and if 'I think', it is because I plunge on into provisional thoughts and, by deeds, overcome time's discontinuity."
"But it also is the foundation for any biographico"
"still the most ob scure of all the centuries up to now."
"Man delivers stellt zu the world unto himself and produces lstellt her Nature for himself."
"The changed meaning of the terms 'elementary' and 'more advanced' in modern physiology proclaims a changed philosophy."
"The totality of this structural whole revealed itself as care."
"Those standing about in pub lic have abolished thinking and replaced it with gossip that smells nihilism everywhere"
"the change is all embracing, which takes us away from the mechanistic theory, since in that case the reactions are mediated by a comprehensive grasp of the instrument."
"In llner's optical illusion, I 'see' the main lines converging."
"Seen from the open, defenselessness too, as the departure against the pure attraction, seems to be something negative."
"In such knowledge, which can only grow slowly, it is decided whether art can be an origin and therefore mlL'it be a leap ahead or whether it should remain a mere postscript, in which case it can only be carried along as a cultural phenomenon that has become routine."
"Only beings that in accordance with the meaning of their being are attuned, that is, existing, have always already been and exist in a constant mode of having been can be affected."
"The functional correlations which can be discovered between these three phenomena are merely manifestations of their 'essential co existence'."
"We must either reject physiological explanation or admit that it is all inclusive either deny consciousness or accept it as comprehensive."
"Not a given manifold with a synthetic apperception which ranges over it and completely penetrates it, but a certain perceptual field against the background of a world."
"For the life world the world for us air is identical with the world that can be commonly talked about."
"To the four books ofLo Gaya Scienza, Nietzsche appended a fifth in four years later; he gave it the title"
"The occurrence of Dasein is a daily one by reason of interpreting time by dating it a way that is prefigured in its thrownness into the There."
"The historical development of time reckoning and the use of the clock is not to be presented here historiographically with all its possible variations."
"But in fact it attributed to the nervous systems the occult power of creating the different structures of our experience, and whereas sight, touch and hearing are so many ways of gaining access to the object, these structures found themselves transformed into compact qualities derived from the local distinction between the organs used."
"I noticed that the judgements which I was accustomed to make about these objects were formed within me before I had time to weigh and consider any reasons which might have forced me to make them.'"
"The deceased has abandoned our world and left it behind."
"Taking care of things is guided by circumspection which discovers things at hand and preserves them in their discoveredness."
"This whole paragraph is crossed out in the."
"In dealing with one another, we have long since become aware of this discrepancy between our various on tic validities."
"In this nearest disclosedness, space is still hidden as the pure wherein in which points are ordered by measurement and the positions of things are determined."
"Solitude and communication cannot be the two horns of a dilemma, but two 'moments' of one phenomenon, since in fact other people do exist for me."
"The completion of our task does not require a detailed investigation of the many philosophies and particular currents of the subsequent period."
"The decisive ntm de in the destiny of being as evepyela is the transition to actualitas."
"The latter can be displayed only in relativity, in an unfolding of horizons in which one soon realizes that unnoticed limitations, horizons which have not been felt, push us on to inquire into new correlations inseparably bound up with those already displayed."
"In the fine arts, the art is not itself beautiful, but is, rather, called so because it brings forth the beautiful."
"And finally it cannot be umped into, but the begin question and ning of the strife already needs preparation."
"What does being in mean?"
"lowever, the absolute knowledge of science takes no notice of it."
"But this scholarly, scientific priority is not the only one."
"The return to existence, as to the setting in which the communication between body and mind can be understood, is not a return to Consciousness or Spirit, and existential psychoanalysis must not serve as a pretext for a revival of mentalistic philosophy (spiritualisme)."
"That is why it is not only a phenomenon of the present age, nor even a product originally of the nineteenth century, when admittedly a keen eye for nihilism awoke and its name became common."
"Thus the immediate I performs an accomplishment through which it constitutes a variational mode of itself as existing (in the mode of having passed)."
"Our perception senses how near is the canvas underneath the picture, or the crumbling cement under the building, or the tiring actor under the character."
"A seer has always seen already."
"The world toward which they comport themselves, which motivates them, with which they constantly have to deal, is of course precisely the world, the one existing world; but, in the personal attitude, interest is directed toward the persons and their comportment toward the world, toward the ways in which the thematic persons have consciousness of whatever they are conscious of as existing for them, and also toward the particular objective sense the latter has in their consciousness of it."
"The usefulness of the equipment is, however, only the necessary consequence of reliability."
"The being together  with. ."
"With them, the structure of attunement as such comes to the fore."
"Or is the being of Dasein first con stituted by occurrence, so that only because Dasein is historical in its being What preceded beforehand and now still remains.v are anything like circumstances, events, and destinies ontologically pos sible?"
"It wants to bring him back to Dasein by helping him to veil completely his ownmost nonrelational possibility."
"The child lives in a world which he unhesitatingly believes accessible to all around him."
"However, in the presencing of knowl edge,.e., of the longer the idea subiectum in the sense of the showing itself as res cogitans, appearance is no elSos, but rather as perceptio."
"But the constitutional totality of care has the possible ground of its unity in temporality."
"That means, something is out of joint."
"This relating itself to an objectivity belongs to them even if the objectivity does not."
"Corresponding to this in the case of the primary characteristics is the graduality of the perfection of measurement and of approximation through measurement, and what proceeds from this, or is carried out in connection with it, namely, quantification through geometrical and similar concepts."
"For the same reason, my awareness of it is not a thought, that is to say, I cannot take it to pieces and reform it to make a clear idea."
"The boundary sets free into unconceal ment: by means of its outline, the mountain stands in the Greek light in its towering and repose."
"Man is a historical idea and not a natural species."
"It cannot be said to be at rest if it is constantly annihilated and recreated, and if it does not survive through its different instantaneous presentations."
"The createdness of the work means: the fixing in place of truth in the figure."
"Infinity is discovered, first in the form of the idealization of magnitudes, of measures, of numbers, figures, straight lines, poles, surfaces, etc."
"He becomes the one who eliminates beings in the sense of beings in themselves des an sich Seienden. '"
"matical natural science Galilean science, as it was rightly called for a long time."
"Yet it is neither arbitrary, nor an instance of mere tenninology (assuming it is at all licit to bring the language of thinking together with a terminology, which in accordance with its essence is an instrument of the sciences)."
"This history is the the history of the process of training and cating consciousness itself up to the level of science."
"Resoluteness, transparent to indefiniteness of its potentiality of being is always determined only in a resolution with regard to the actual situation."
"Now a pure consciousness is capable of anything except being ignorant of its intentions, and an absolute freedom cannot choose itself as hesitant, since that amounts to allowing itself to be drawn in several directions, and since, the possibilities being ex hypothesi indebted to freedom for all the strength they have, the weight that freedom gives to one is thereby withdrawn from the rest."
"Are these objc tively present things then still what they were?"
"Every place is equal to every other."
"The content, however, of what we see arising existsfor comciousness, and we lay hold of and comprehend merely its formal character,.e."
"As something communicated, what is spoken can be shared by the others with the speaker even when they themselves do not have the beings pointed out and defmed in a palpable and visible range."
"but rather the being which is most in being."
"The moodedness of attunement constitutes existentially the openness to world of Da sein."
"For in such a case truth as disclosedness, dis covering, and discoveredness cannot be."
"The generality of the body will never make it clear"
"Confusion is based upon forgetting."
"Every first now is always a just now not yet, thus it is time in the sense of the not yet now, the future."
"This, however, could only happen through man's deciding, from and for himself, what was knowable for him, and what the knowing and securing of the known,.e., certainty, should mean."
"But if we go back to Galileo, as the creator of the conception which first made physics possible: what came to be taken for granted only through his deed could not be taken for granted by him."
"What is brought home to us here is the need to find a middle course between eternity and the atomistic time of empiricism, in order to resume the interpretation of the cogito and of time."
"To it scruples of that sort scruples which critical reductions have brought to bear on knowledge in the past are foreign."
"But Euclidean geometry, and ancient mathematics in general, knows only finite tasks, a finitely closed a priori."
"But when, at the same time or even beforehand, in accordance with a predetermination, taken on faith, of Thomistic philosophy for biblical interpretation, the ens creatum is thought out of the unity of materia and forma, then faith is inter preted by a philosophy whose truth is based on an unconcealment of beings that is of another kind than the world believed in by faith."
"Reflection transports the man of the future into that in between in which he belongs to being and yet, amidst beings, remains a stranger"
"Then we see that within the organism the structure depends on variables such as the biological meaning of the situation, which are no longer physical variables, with the result that the whole eludes the well known instruments of physico mathematical analysis, and opens the way to another type of intelligibility."
"Because its kind of being is entangled, the way Dasein gets interpreted is for the most part cally inauthenti oriented and does not get at the essence, since the primor dially appropriate ontological kind of line questioning remains alien to it."
"Mood does not disclose in the mode of looking at thrownness, but as turning toward and away from it For the most part, mood does not tum toward the burdensome character of Dasein revealed in it,"
"This placing in securedness must be a calculating, since only calculation guar antees being certain, in advance and always, of that which is to be presented."
"All that happens as a result is that we are directed specifically into that relationship with the absolute in which we already are."
"And, of course, it also holds for general states of affairs that belong to such universals."
"The Greeks do not have a word for lan guage, they initially understood this phenomenon as discourse."
"This is so because, in its essence, art is an origin: a distinctive way in which truth comes into being, becomes, that is, historical."
"This dread, however, is dread at dread."
"Conversely, one can owe something to another without being responsible for it oneself."
"We grasp the ontic meaning of this letting be in a fundamentally ontological way."
"Natural consciousness will prove itself to be only the concept of knowledge and not real knowledge."
"The tacit thesis of perception is that at every instant experience can be co ordinated with that of the previous instant and that of the following, and my perspective with that of other consciousnesses that all contradictions can be removed, that monadic and intersubjective experience is one unbroken text that what is now indeterminate for me could become determinate for a more complete knowledge, which is as it were realized in advance in the thing, or rather which is the thing itself."
"But one might object that this maxim is, after all, abundantly self evident and, moreover, an expression of the principle of all scientific knowl edge."
"But although we can break with a human world, we cannot help focusing our eyes which means that as long as we live we remain committed, if not in a human setting, at least in a physical one and for any given focus of the gaze, perception is not arbitrary."
"Arising is an ecstatic modification of awaiting in such a way that awaiting pursues making present."
"In this connection it is not necessary to go more concretely into the first beginnings of the enactment of Galileo's physics and of the development of its method."
"The priority of Dasein over and above all other beings which emerges here without being ontologically clarified obviously has nothing in common with a vapid subjectivizing of the totality of beings."
"The Task of a Destructuring of the History of Ontology"
"human and psychic, the sense of being my psychic life and that of other human beings the life in which everyone has his world representations, finds himself as existing, representing, acting according to purposes in the world."
"The immediate was therefore a lonely, blind and mute life."
"In this way the center gives beings over to the risk as which they are risked."
"True, an empty anticipation of something more perfect is necessarily given at the same time, but not in such a way that the practical intuition aimed at the plus ultra could ever be fulfilled, any more than the continuation of the perfection series, now prefigured in an empty way, could be fulfilled as a series to be continued."
"Reclam edition, This statement docs not, however, say that art is absolutely an end."
"The truth of which we have spoken does not coincide with what is gen erally recognized under this name that which is assigned to knowledge Reclam edition,."
"The question of being demands that the right access to beings be gained and secured in advance with regard to what it interrogates."
"the forces by which, knowing not what it is doing, the era prevents Holderlin's poetry from becoming timely."
"We must recognize first of all that thought, in the speaking subject, is not a representation, that is, that it does not expressly posit objects or relations."
"cepts and thus have their shape determinations; but it is of the nature of these experiential data"
"But the publicness of time is all the more compelling, the more factical Dasein explicitly takes care of time by expressly taking it into account."
"Sight, it is said, can bring us only colours or lights, and with them forms which are the outlines of colours, and movements which are the patches of colour changing position."
"Its first section is dedicated to a discussion of space and time."
"I.e., of transforming this Selbstverst ndlichkeit into a Verst ndlichkeit."
"Consciousness is This term is the usual one in Husserl's unpublished writings."
"The appearance and sacrificial death of Christ, for the historical experience of Holderlin, mean that the end to the days of divinity has set in."
"But what is more being, and therefore, as modems think it, what is more certain than death?"
"pictures to run together and produces a perception of movement whereas, without auditory support, the same succession of images would be too slow to give rise to stroboscopic movement."
"Modern subjectivism, of course, misinterprets creation as the product of the genius of the self sovereign subject."
"Psychologists often say that the body image is dynamic."
"But it misses the substance."
"In so far as I have a body through which I act in the world, space and time are not, for me, a collection of adjacent points nor are they a limitless number of relations synthesized by my consciousness, and into which it draws my body."
"The intersensory object is to the visual object what the visual object is to the monocular images of double vision, and the senses It is true that the senses should not be put on the same basis, as if they were all equally capable of objectivity and accessible to intentionality."
"But nothing would be gained for a completely sufficient definition of language if we were to put these different fragmentary definitions together in a syncretistic way."
"Or maybe he's in hiding?"
"Does not this phenomenon come to a pre phenomenolog ical view; is it not always in view without requiring a thematically onto logical interpretation?"
"art, as founding, accedes to its historical essence."
"Vtmtiindigkeit we have taken away from pure intuition its priority which noetically corresponds to the traditional ontological priority of objective presence."
"My body is the fabric into which all objects are woven, and it is, at least in relation to the perceived world, the general instrument of my 'comprehension'."
", of the constant presuppositions of his own constructions, concepts, propositions, theories."
"Just as the waning and disappearance of familiar things within the supremacy of objectivity is part of our defenselessness, so the safebeing of our essence demands that things be saved from mere objectivity."
"Even if we understand the rubric ground thesis of metaphysics in the conser vative sense that it identifies the essential ground of beings as such,.e."
"But what does it mean that the world no longer is?"
"It is true that this parousia the fact that the absolute is already in and for itself with us and wiiJs"
"But here again an absurdity immediately leaps to the fore: does the knowledge with which such a view operates, or even the possibilities, which it considers, make any sense if the laws of logic are given over to such relativism?"
"But what th positive meaning is of the inside of immanence in which knowing is initially Certainly not."
"They all share the basic conviction that the objective sciences (no matter how much they, and particularly the exact sciences, may consider themselves, in virtue of their obvious theoretical and practical accomplishments, to be in possession of the only true method and to be treasure houses of ultimate truths) are not seriously sciences at all, not cognitions ultimately grounded,.e."
"The goal of the route of consciousness is fixed for knowledge in its essence as this very knowledge."
"In any case, we can now recognize from all this that historicism, which wishes to clarify the historical or epistemological essence of mathematics from the standpoint of the magical circumstances or other manners of apperception of a time bound civilization, is mistaken in principle."
"The being whose analysis our task is, is always we ourselves."
"To retrieve from a source means to take in what rises up and to bring away what has been received."
"And indeed, under mescalin, the sound of a <U+FB02>ute gives a bluish green colour, the tick of a metronome, in darkness, is translated as grey patches, the spatial intervals between them corresponding to the intervals of time between the ticks, the size of the patch to the loudness of the tick, and its height to the pitch of the sound."
"Whether we are concerned with my body, the natural world, the past, birth or death, the question is always how I can be open to phenomena which transcend me, and which nevertheless exist only to the extent that I take them up and live them; how the presence to myself (Urpr senz) which establishes my own limits and conditions every alien presence is at the same time depresentation (Entgegenw rtigung) and throws me outside myself."
"the left is grounded in the essential directionality of Dasein in general, which in turn is essentially determined by being in the world."
"If we may postpone the question of whether a history of the present is possible and assign to historiography the task of disclosing the past, the historiographical thematization of history is possible only if the past has always already been disclosed in general."
"But is this not possible only if the method of measuring through approximations and constructive determinations extends to all real properties and real causal relations of the intuitable world, to everything which is ever experienceable in particular experiences?"
"We shall soon understand what extraordinary difficulties grounded in the essence of the matters involved greeted the methodical efforts actually to approach the depth sphere, to approach first of all the possibility of its pure grasp of itself in the manner of experiencing proper to it; and it will become clear thereby how great the antagonism is between the patent life of the plane and the latent life of depth."
"In what, now, does the thingliness of things such as this consist?"
", nonetheless, we must think about the matter itself."
"They are rooted in ancient ontol ogy itself."
"I: everything according to values is nihilism when thought in relation to being itself, then even Nietzsche's experience of nihilism as the devaluation of the highest values is still nihilistic."
"They could be taught and learned in their institutes, their seminars, in collections of models, in museums."
"The unconcealment of beings is what the Greeks called a."
"These other beings can only meet up with Dasein because they are able to show them selves of their own accord within a world."
"In attacking the 'visual sphere', illness is not limited to destroying certain contents of consciousness, 'visual representations' or sight literally speaking; it affects sight in the figurative sense, of which the former is no more than the model or symbol the power of 'looking Hochheimer, op."
"Dasein comes toward itself in terms of what is taken care of."
"The surface which I am about to recognize as the surface of the table, when vaguely looked at, already summons me to focus upon it, and demands those movements of convergence which will endow it with its 'true' aspect."
"But why did transcendental philosophy not achieve the unity of a development running through all its interruptions?"
"An original reflective question is now directed toward what and how souls first of all human souls are in the world, the life"
"One can truly say that the idea of nature as a really self enclosed world of bodies first emerges with Galileo."
"The Temporality of Understanding."
", the chief goal is of course the a priori in the second sense, that is, to establish the principle of self given forms and states of affairs, and, by means of these, to develop, analyze, and evaluate those concepts and laws of logic, of ethics, of value theory, that have a claim to the status of principles."
"If, as is still the case in Kant, we call the sensory world the physical world in the broadest sense, then the supersensory world is the metaphysical world."
"Temporality itself sketches out the fundamental directions of the analyses thus required."
"I can miss being free only if I try to bypass my natural and social situation by refusing to take it up, in the first place, instead of assuming it in order to join up with the natural and human world."
"The repose of the work that rests in itself thus has its essence in the intimacy of the struggle."
"If Dasein is really actual only in existence, its factuality is, after all constituted precisely by its resolute self projection upon a chosen potentiality of being."
"That is to say: the number is some thing mathematical."
"Every force is defined as is, that is, nothing but ito; consequences as motion within the unity of time; and that means, again, change of place."
"Similar observations should be developed at length in respect to nearness and farness."
"Moreover, the range of application of this conceptual pairing has long extended far beyond the field of aesthetics."
"Whether it is a case of being or of illusion, it does not affect at all the fact that the subject in question does, in fact, carry out a perception (for example), that he does in fact have the consciousness: '"
"But out of sentences with sedimented signification, logical dealing can produce only other sentences of the same character."
"tially belongs to Da sein, then the understanding of being in the world belongs to the essential content of its understanding of being."
"In its factual being Dasein always is as and what it already was."
"Why does Hume's Treatise (in comparison to which the Essay Concerning Human Understanding is badly watered down) represent such a great historical event?"
"Thus the whole pregiven deductive science, the total sys"
"In each case and in every respect what is risked must be of such a kind that it affects all beings because they are beings."
"We thus restore to the word skepsis its original meaning: crt Eif signifies the seeing oversees Sehrn watching Zusehen inspecting muhsieht)"
"For repression, to which psycho analysis refers, consists in the subject's entering upon a certain course of action a love affair, a career, a piece of work in his encountering on this course some barrier, and, since he has the strength neither to surmount the obstacle nor to abandon the enterprise, he remains imprisoned in the attempt and uses up his strength indefinitely renewing it in spirit."
"Together with the new task and its universal apodictic ground, the practical possibility of a new philosophy will prove itself: through its execution."
"The Opinions of Those Who Speak of cpv a. Aristotle also calls them the cpva oMyo meaning the early thinkers who discuss the things of nature."
"What is song itself?"
"The positive, existential, and ontological interpretation of death and its character of end are to be developed following the guideline of the fundamental constitution of Da sein, attained up to now the phe nomenon of care."
"the ac of knowing, the cogitatio, has real reelle moments that really reell constitute it; but the thing to which it refers and which it ostensibly perceives, remem bers, and the like, is to be found in the cogitatio itself as an experience not really reell as a part, as something that actually exists inside it."
"That is why, as we might put it, Schneider's abstract movements have lost their melodic <U+FB02>ow, why they are made up of Cf."
"The presently present is not a slice that is cut off and shoved between the unpresently present; it is present insofar as it allows itself to belong to the unpresent:"
"In fact, every language conveys its own teaching and carries its meaning into the listener's mind."
"To what extent is there gibt es such a thing as art?"
"Rather, the subj ect, correctly under stood ontologically Da sein, is spatial in a primordial sense."
"Only when we have found this attestation, will our inquiry suf fice to set forth (as its problematic requires) an authentic potentiality of being a whole of Da sein, existentially confirmed and clarified."
"Properties such as color, durities (hardness), pondus can be removed from matter, yet matter remains what it is."
"Saying means the being that I always am as am in a world."
": this is the capacity for reactivation that belongs originally to every human being as a speaking being."
"Man rearranges uvmellt things when they bother him."
"Cartesian dualism as the reason for the parallelization."
"We must show how Dasein as temporality temporalizes a mode of behavior that is related in such a way to time that it takes account of it."
"But the world has a historical kind of being because it constitutes an ontological determination of Da sein."
"The warning conscience has the fun ction of sporadically governing our staying free from indebtedness."
"It is the beingness of beings, which is to say that it is not found anywhere among beings as an extant resource."
"Once the colour quality is acquired, and only by means of it, do the previous data appear as preparations of this quality."
"In the judgment of natural consciousness, every step taken by the presentation of phenomenal knowledge leads to nothing."
"In it, Dasein understands itself with regard to its potentiality of being in a way that confronts death in order to take over completely the being that it itself is in its thrownness."
"The former occurs in the realm of being or of the actual, the latter on the other hand in that of the virtual or the non existent; the first adheres to a given background, the second throws out its own background."
"Death and the ldngdom of the dead belong, as the other side, to the entirety of beings."
"On the contrary, this alienation drives Dasein into a kind of being intent upon the most exaggerated self dissection which tries out all kinds of possibilities of interpretation, with the result that the characterologies and typologies which it points out are themselves too numerous to grasp."
"I am not a constituting thought, and my 'I think' is not an 'I am', unless by thought I can equal the world's concrete richness, and re absorb facticity into it."
"We notice for the first time, with regard to our own body, what is true of all perceived things: that the perception of space and the perception of the thing, the spatiality of the thing and its being as a thing are not two distinct problems."
"If prospection is retrospection, it is in any case an anticipatory retrospection, and how could one anticipate if one had no sense of the future?"
"And was not the communication of the elements of language between the 'first man to speak' and the second necessarily of an entirely different kind from communication through gesture?"
"Or is this a paradox which can be sensibly resolved, even a necessary one, arising necessarily out of the constant tension between the power of what is taken for granted in the natural objective attitude (the power of common sense and the opposed attitude of the disinterested spectator"
"One should not, however, misconstrue this as the mere application of modem mathematical science to praxis."
"What proves here that I judge is that painters know perfectly how to provide me with the perception of a distant mountain by imitating its appearance on a canvas.'"
"It is not necessary that each member of the proletariat should think of himself as such, in the sense that a Marxist theoretician gives to the word."
"But then are the scientific conclusions, the transcendent conclusions of epistemology themselves still valid?"
"However, it is clear that, one and the same project being given, one rock will appear as an obstacle, and another, being more negotiable, as a means."
"This dispute loses ts basis one notes that locative adverbs have a relation to the I qua Da sein."
"The musical meaning of a sonata is inseparable from the sounds which are its vehicle: before we have heard it no analysis enables us to anticipate it; once the performance is over, we shall, in our intellectual analyses of the music, be unable to do anything but carry ourselves back to the moment of experiencing it."
"The decline of nonnative values is at an end."
"How is this having value and being involved with value to be understood categorially?"
"No idiosyncrasy can, seemingly, be attached to the insuperable generality of consciousness, nor can any limit be set to this immeasurable power of escape."
"Perhaps a deeper critique could show that Kant, though he attacks empiricism, still remains dependent upon this very empiricism in his conception of the soul and the range of tasks of a psychology, that what counts for him as the soul is the soul which is made part of nature and conceived of as a component of the psychophysical human being within the time of nature, within space time."
"My vision, the cogito for example, is certainly 'thinking that I see', if we mean thereby that it is not simply a bodily function like digestion or respiration, a collection of processes so grouped as to have a significance in a larger system, but that it is itself that system and that significance, that anteriority of the future to the present, of the whole to its parts."
"These possibilities themselves, however, reveal an essential tendency of being of everydayness."
"Pilote de Guerre,. '"
"Resoluteness does not simply have a connection with anticipation as something other than itself."
"The matter form structure, however, by which the being of a piece of equipment is first determined, readily presents itself as the immediately comprehensible constitution of every being because, here, productive hu manity is itself involved in the way in which a piece of equipment comes into being.a"
"Therefore, what is threatening cannot approach from a definite direction within nearness, it is already there and yet nowhere."
"Aristotle says, he psy che ta onta pas estin."
"Because.;ietLsche experiences the being of beings as the will to power, his thinking must think outward to values."
"Science becomes research through the projected plan and through the securing of the plan in the rigor of procedure."
"It is human beings that are concretely experienced."
"but simply unnoticed."
"On the basis of the temporally founded transcen Il.v dence of the world, what is world"
"Behaviour creates meanings which are transcendent in relation to the anatomical apparatus, and yet immanent to the behaviour as such, since it communicates itself and is understood."
"It is a matter in each case of being giving beings over to the risk."
"given to itself, and that the word consciousness has no meaning independently of this duality."
"pletely leave aside the question whether this datability is factically carried out with regard to a date on the calendar."
"Number is never a pure concept, the absence of which would allow us to define Schneider's mental state, it is a structure of consciousness involving degrees of more or less."
"In the course of alteration they all play their role as exhibitings, now being interrupted, now beginning again; they offer many types of manifolds of exhibitings, appearances, each of which functions precisely as an exhibiting of."
"The voices are uncouth voices, or else voices 'of people pretending to be uncouth', or it may be a young man imitating an old man's voice, or 'as if a German were trying to talk Yiddish'. '"
"The actual world discovers the spatiality of space belonging to it."
"We can grasp Nietzsche's thoughts about incomplete nihilism more clearly and acutely by saying: incomplete nihilism indeed replaces the for mer values by others, but it always puts them in the old place, which is, as it were, preserved as the ideal region of the supersensory."
"Self reflection serves in arriving at a decision; and here this naturally means immediately carrying on with the task which is most truly ours and which has now been clarified and understood through this historical self reflection, the task set for us all in the present."
"Along with the thinking that thinks the will to power, therefore, the question necessarily arises: in what shape must the human essence, willed and willing out of the being of beings, place itself and develop so that it will satisfy the will to power and thus be able to undertake mastery over beings?"
"It receives and gives what it has received."
"On the other hand, Dasein so little needs to ripen only with its death that it can already have gone beyond that ripeness before the end."
"Phenomenology is the study of essences; and according to it, all problems amount to finding definitions of essences: the essence of perception, or the essence of consciousness, for example."
"But then an inspection of the mind which surveyed them and established one in virtue of the other would not be true subjectivity and would borrow too much from things considered as in themselves."
"In distinction from the Greek apprehension, modem representing, whose signification is first expressed by the word reprnesentatio, means some thing quite different."
"the typology of functioning subjectivities is itself historical: human beings are necessarily members of generative communities and thus necessarily live in every communal surrounding world as their own surrounding world, in which, in this respect, a universal historicity holds sway."
"Since Descartes, the true, the is the ens certtmt: ens verum,"
"The true is the object for it. '"
"Freud compares the accident occurring from outside to the foreign body which, for the oyster, is merely the occasion for secreting a pearl."
"Therefore, nihilism aiming at revaluation (understood in this way) will seek out what is most alive."
"lbis meaning being itself is left undifferentiated and uncon trasted with other possibilities of being so"
"The recalcitrance of the innerworldly nothing and nowhere means phenomenally that what Angst is about is the world as such."
"We do not, following Kant, understand thereby a system of invariable relations to which every existent thing is subject in so far as it can be known."
"It can be seen that such an accomplishment was possible only through the essence of this structure and that, accordingly, exact objectification could have significance for the world, at least at first, only as a world of bodies, whereby everything about the things that was itself noncorporeal was abstracted."
"(and also of the realistic and irrationalistic philosophies of the present) to conceive of consciousness as a mere stratum of the concrete man and to oppose to it other dimensions of life not traceable to consciousness?"
"This means that the constitutive reference of the in order to to a what for has been disturbed."
"We do not restrict ourselves to an orientation toward cognition."
"One can erect one illusion after another."
"But this is precisely what cannot be done once we have reduced the living body to the condition of an object."
"I 'S What is happerung with the hitherto highest values?"
"But this is just to help you along the way."
"It is generally held that the definition of the thingness of the thing in of substance and accidents appears to capture our natural view of things."
"they are not related to sense organs belonging to them alone, as are the aiadijT Wta."
"The precise and entirely determinate world is still posited in the first place, no longer perhaps as the cause of our perceptions, but as their immanent end."
"Or is it rather that this task brings us to what is the most difficult, particularly when such an intention to allow a being to be as it is is the opposite of that indifference which turns its back on beings in favour of an unexamined concept of being?"
"The whole of the art industry, even if taken to extremes and with everything carried out for the sake of the works themselves, reaches only as far as the object being of the works."
"Projection and rigor, method and constant activity, each demanding the other, make up the essence of modern science, make into research."
"But not only in this respect, that concept and object, the criterion and"
"Being is not a real predi cate according to Kant who is only repeating Descartes' statement."
"Husserl introduced the notion of retention, and held that I still have the immediate past in hand, precisely for the purpose of conveying that I do not posit the past, or construct it from an Abschattung really distinct from it and by means of an express act; but that I reach it in its recent, yet already elapsed, thisness."
"We, however, who used to think we understood it, have now become perplexed."
"In order to imitate the actions of someone facing me, it is not necessary that I should know expressly that 'the hand which appears on the right side of my visual field is for my partner the left one'."
"Inherent in the sense of my whole presentation, however, is that this part is the functioning brain, so to speak, on whose normal."
"For whereas neither the physicist nor the chemist are the objects of their own investigation, the psychologist was himself, in the nature of the case, the fact which exercised him."
"A pair of peasant shoes and nothing more."
"Thus, to be out standing means that what belongs together is not yet together."
"Extemalization, rather, is the self maintaining of the fullness of appearance out of the strength of the will, which is the mode in which the parousia of the absolute prevails."
"Its being, its validity, remains undecided."
"And, by the same necessity, they must all open on the same space"
"The translation of To xpeoov as usage is not based on etymological or lexical considerations."
"Within certain limits, the analysis of extensio remains independent of his neglecting to provide an explicit interpretation of the being of extended beings."
"The field is a setting that I possess for a certain type of experiences, and which, once established, cannot be nullified."
"It is essential to reclaim the field that had to remain in obscurity while the land of metaphysics was inescapablydominant."
"The relation of transcendental psychology to transcendental phenomenology as the proper access to pure self knowledge."
"All things arc not Within the power of heavenly ones."
"Where are ontological projects to get the evidence that their findings are phenomenally appropriate?"
"Thus, Dasein is never to be understood ontologically as a case and instance of a genus of beings as objectively present."
"More than this: my earlier naive self objectification as the empirical human ego of my psychic life has become involved in a new movement."
"Since all it does is turn metaphysics upside down, Nietzsche's countermovement against metaphysics remains embroiled in it and has no way out; in fact it is em broiled in it to such a degree that it is sealed off from its essence and, as metaphysics, is unable ever to think its own essence."
"The measurement of time brings about a making public of time, so that only in this way does what we usually call time become familiar."
"It is Leibniz, thinking on the vis which charac terizes the ens, who for the first time clearly thinks the willing essence of the being of beings."
"Thus the problem of the life world, or rather of the manner in which it functions and must function for scientists, is only a. okkasionelle."
"It speaks from the essential experience of aKia as the fundamental trait of vTa."
"Only if we bring the everyday occur rence of Dasein and the heedful calculation of time in this occur rence into the interpretation of the temporality of Da sein, will our orientation become comprehensive enough to enable us to make the."
"What does To xpewv mean?"
"In spite of this, the pregiven world is still valid as a ground for them and has not been transposed into the universe of the purely subjective, a universal framework in its own right, which is our concern now."
"To preserve the connection, one can formalize sight and seeing to the point of gaining a universal term which characterizes every access as access whatsoever to beings and to being."
"The way what is questioned essentially engages our questioning belongs to the innermost meaning of the question of being."
"It is only this necessity, or this origination of the new object (which offers itself to consciousness without consciousness knowing how it comes by it), that takes place for us, so to say, behind its back."
"Lachi ze Rey, Utilisation possible"
"The duality of naturata and naturans is therefore converted into a dialectic of constituted and constituting time."
"Do not these questions, universal and necessary for all men, demand universal reflections and answers based on rational insight?"
"But this only means that the being that has the character of Dasein has a relation to the question of being itself, perhaps even a distinctive one."
"Because some thing ontic is made to underlie the ontological, the expression substantia functions sometimes in an ontological, sometimes in an ontic meaning, but mostly in a meaning which shifts about in a hazy mixture of the two."
"Temporality temporalizes itself as future which lapses intothe past by coming into the present.'"
"Biological lines of thought now crowd in upon us."
"They trace out from a distance the structure of the object without waiting for its point by point stimulation."
"It gives, and yet at the same time it docs not give."
"waitingfor Even in expecting, one leaps away from the possible and gets a footing in the real."
"How is it, however, when a, ov and eTvat come to sound in lan guage as the fundamental words of thinking; not just some particular way of thinking, but rather as the key words for all Western thinking?"
"I f:; has only to be drawn into this restlessness in order to find itself already in the route of its progress."
"If we manage momentarily to glimpse a hollowed motif as one in relief, a seal for example, we suddenly have the impression of a magic lighting emanating from the interior of the object."
"only then does one have purely psychological problems; one never has them in isolation."
"Any going to work and starting out does not meet up with a useful thing given in isolation out of nothing, but in taking hold of a useful thing we come back to the useful thing grasped from the work world that has always already been disclosed."
"They also had investigations of the human and the animal soul, but they could not have a psychology in the modern sense, a psychology"
"Only because it has the essential structure of being with, is one's own Dasein Mitda sein as encounterable by others."
"(' tre. . .'), and because my consciousness of existing merges into the actual gesture of 'ex sistence'."
"When we collect the three meanings of statement analyzed here in a unitary view of the complete phenomenon, the definition reads: Statement is a pointing out which communicates and defines."
"Thus enigmas about how a spiritual accomplishment comes to pass can be clarified, one will say, only through psychological demonstrations, and they remain thus within the pregiven world."
"And yet each day does not signify the sum of the days that are allotted to Dasein in its lifetime."
"Finally, world designates the ontological and existential concept of worldliness."
"That is why phenomenology, alone of all philosophies, talks about a transcendental field."
"No sooner is the recollection of memories made possible than it becomes super<U+FB02>uous, since the work it is being asked to do is already done."
"Vhat stands in this relation is the known."
"For this reason we cannot accept the notion of evidence as feeling."
"All discoveredness, however, is ontologically based in the most primordial truth, in the dis closedness of Da sein."
"We asserted that Dasein is what is darily historical is what is primarily historical."
"On the contrary, this interpretation could even make us suspect that death would have to be understood in the sense of an imminent event to be encountered in the surrounding world."
"And not just that; the form prescribes, in each case, the kind and selection of the matter impermeability for the jug, adequate hardness for."
"The miracle of consciousness consists in its bringing to light, through attention, phenomena which re establish the unity of the object in a new dimension at the very moment when they destroy it."
"It itself, in its everyday kind of being, is what initially misses itself and covers itself over."
"The salvation of things consists in their being able to rest in themselves within the widest compass of the whole attraction, that is, to rest unrestrictedly in each other."
"the inside or the back of that object are not recalled or represented."
"Having corresponds to this giving."
"Even when normal and even when involved in situations with other people, the subject, in so far as he has a body, retains every moment the power to withdraw from it."
"The actual positing of existence, irrelevant."
"This is because it presents itself with the world ready made, as the setting of every possible event, and treats perception as one of these events."
"Since antiquity, being has meant: presencing."
"When we bring to mind concretely what has been exhibi ted in the interpretation of phe nomenon and logos we are struck by an inner relation between what is meant by these terms."
"But, for the same reason, I am not immune from error, since the world which I seek to achieve through each appearance, and which endows that appearance, rightly or wrongly, with the weight of truth, never necessarily requires this particular appearance."
"In unconcealment, cpa aala happens: the coming to appearance, as a particular something, of that which presences for man, who himself pres ences to what appears."
"This new possibility of being can be independently developed."
"Furthermore, an elevated mood can alleviate the manifest burden of being."
"The primary truth is indeed 'I think', but only provided that we understand thereby 'I belong to myself' while belonging to the world."
"He only wishes to show all orientation needs a subjective principle."
"Presence the allowing of presence: the esscncing to presencc tlas"
"To call physicalism philosophy is only to pass off an equivocation as a realization of the perplexities concerning our knowledge in which we have found ourselves since Hume."
"gives it the possibility of an Yet neither of these moods, lated in the stream of experience, but always attunes an understanding or is attuned by it."
"But no psychological explanation can Failure or refusal on the patient's part to recognize the existence of a disease or disability (Translator's note)."
"This is possible only provided that consciousness is understood not as the explicit positing of its objects, but more generally as reference to a practical as well as a theoretical object, as being in the world, and if the body for its part is understood not as one object among all objects, but as the vehicle of being in the world."
"What is at hand comes explicitly before sight that understands."
"What appears in this way is not itself one thing at hand among others and cer tainly not something objectively present which lies at the basis of the useful thing at hand."
"If we look for a long time at an illuminated object which will leave behind it an after image, and if we focus subsequently on screens placed at varying distances, the after image is thrown upon them with a diameter greater in proportion as the screen is farther away."
"We can perceive, in contrast with this, the essence of normal language: the intention to speak can reside only in an open experience."
"It is, for our translation, untenable."
"To encompass is to unite around all beings, so that it is indeed, in the union that unites, the being of beings."
"what function, found in the normal person, is absent in the patient?"
"In essence this is to say: seeing, grasping what is self given, insofar as it is an actual seeing that presents an actual self givenness and not a givenness that refers to something not given that is something ultimate."
"However, this view of the essence of the createdness of the work puts us into a position to take the step to which everything that has been said up to now leads."
"Factical Dasein exists as born, and, born, it is already dying in the sense of being toward death."
"We anticipated this sustaining structural moment with the intention of relating the analysis of individual moments, from the outset, with a steady view to the structural whole, and with the intention of reventing any disruption and fragmentation of the unitary phe nomenon."
"After ten years of friendship, even independently of any changes brought about by age, I seem to be dealing with a different person, and after ten years of living in a district, it is as if I were in a different one."
"In the reversal, the presentation has the absoluteness of the absolute before itself and so it has the absolute with itself."
"This open in between"
"Finally, as it is indivisible in the present, history is equally so in its sequences."
"In relation to this concept, in which consciousness it self conceives of itself, natural consciousness is always only the concept For insofar as it is consciousness, it has an idea of what it is to be known generally."
"But in what way is the spirit together with the body?"
"There remains only the formal and most general notion that one must not operate with empty word concepts, must not move in the sphere of vagueness, but must derive everything from clarity, from actually self giving intuition, or, what is the same thing, from self evidence in this case from the original life world experience of, or from what is essentially proper to, the psychic and nothing else."
"This is especially true of sciences which, like geometry, have their thematic sphere in ideal products, in idealities from which more and more idealities at higher levels are produced."
"with a general consideration in which we simply repeat what has been said earlier, though deepening it, in order to be able to say something decisive, with original and vital clarity, about the questions raised."
"larger groups of people, and naturally over the higher ordominant groups, those less exhausted by the cares of life, what are the results?"
"Do we then concede the logician his case?"
"We must return to the cogito, in search of a more fundamental Logos than that of objective thought, one which endows the latter with its relative validity, and at the same time assigns to it its place."
"Of the consciousness which I discover by re<U+FB02>ection and before which everything is an object, it cannot be said that it is myself: my self is arrayed before me like any other thing, and my consciousness constitutes it and is not enclosed within it, so that it can without difficulty constitute other (my)selves."
"It is in the same way theoretically understandable that mental illness may, in its turn, be linked with some bodily accident; consciousness projects itself into a physical world and has a body, as it projects itself into a cultural world and has its habits: because it cannot be consciousness without playing upon significances given either in the absolute past of nature or in its own personal past, and because any form of lived experience tends towards a certain generality whether that of our habits or that of our 'bodily functions'."
"If I want to get used to a stick, I try it by touching a few things with it, and eventually I have it '"
"It is less a question of counting up quotations than of determining and expressing in concrete form this phenomenology for ourselves which has given a number of present day readers the impression, on reading Husserl or Heidegger, not so much of encountering a new philosophy as of recognizing what they had been waiting for."
"In keeping with this certainty, something known has not yet been grasped conceptually if it has only been represented in general."
"But this functional relation has so far failed to make clear either the terms which it links, or consequently their concrete connection, and the greatest benefit of the discovery would be lost if we were content merely to establish a correlative variation between the three terms taken in their ordinary sense."
"Nature is brought before man by"
"The horizonal unity of the schemata of the ecstasies makes possible the primordial connection of the relations of the in order to with the for the sake of which."
"We think of creation as a bringing forth."
"He goes on: 'It must be a pencil or a fountain pen.'"
"The abstract general will to be without prejudice changes nothing about them."
"Thus in what consciousness inside itself declares to be the in itselfor true"
"From the ego' perspective this means that there are new themes, those of the synthesis applying specifically to ego and other ego (each taken purely as ego):"
"But these times are over such is the generally reigning opinion of such people."
"Class is coming into being, and we say that a situation is revolutionary when the connection objectively existing between the sections of the proletariat (the connection, that is, which an absolute observer would recognize as so existing) is finally experienced in perception as a common obstacle to the existence of each and every one."
"Their former self sufficiency has deserted them."
"They must then be unperceived, and the function which reveals them, as a searchlight shows up objects pre existing in the darkness, is called attention."
"It is the things of nature and usage that are normally called things."
"It is never a question of the incomprehensible meeting of two causalities, nor of a collision between the order of causes and that of ends."
"The second part likewise has three divisions:."
"Let us make these two points clear in some detail."
"The experience of persons blind from birth and operated upon for cataract has never proved, and could never prove, that for them space begins with sight."
"This possibility of mood, too, discloses the burdensome character of Dasein even when it alleviates that burden."
", if we consult the invariant, general style of being to which the intuited world, in its unending change, adheres: on the one hand the form of space time is predetermined, and everything that belongs to it a priori (before idealization), as encompassing all bodies in respect to shape."
"Even the phenomenological intuition of essences is based on existential understanding."
"They would risk even more than the self asserting human essence that already risks more than plant and animal."
"The steeple falls across the sky and the bridge slides over a static river if we are looking at the steeple or the bridge."
"In a word, what is acquired through scientific activity is not something real but something ideal."
"The beginning of his Untimely Meditations makes us suspect that he understood more than he made known."
"Instead of taking up the struggle against absurdity, instead of unmasking those supposedly obvious views upon which this sensationalism, and psychologism in general, rests, in order to penetrate to a coherent self understanding and a genuine theory of knowledge, he remains in the comfortable and very impressive role of academic skepticism."
"The logos is experienced as something objectively present and interpreted as such, and the beings which it points out have the meaning of objective presence as well."
"Hence we have in principle a point bypoint correspondence and constant connection between the stimulus and the elementary perception."
"The essence of modernity can be seen in humanity 's freeing itself from the bonds of the Middle Ages in that it frees itself to itself."
"shows the object as having been itself there, recapitulating the perspectivization and other manners of appearing, though in recollective modifications."
"By contrast to the universal causality of the intuitively given world (as."
"It is easy to reply that the indefinite pronoun is here no more than a vague formula for referring to a multiplicity of I's or even a general I."
"Science's entry onto the scene may very well"
"The task of the foregoing considerations was to interpret the primor dial totality of factical Dasein with regard to its possibilities of authentic and inauthentic existing and to do so existentially and ontologically in terms of its very basis."
"Nevertheless, these are the slightest difficulties compared to those which have their ground in the essence of the new dimension and its relation to the old familiar field of life."
"This familiarity, in its tum, helps to constitute Da sein's understanding of being."
"Thus the excitations of one and the same sense differ less by reason of the material instrument which they use than in the way in which the elementary stimuli are spontaneously organized among themselves, and this organization is the crucial factor both at the level of sensible 'qualities' and at that of perception."
"This analysis of depth links up with the one which we have tried to make of height and breadth."
"Accordingly it would be an experience of th fact that the call does not tum up, that is, that I have nothing to reproach myself with."
"My hold on the past and the future is precarious, and my possession of my own time is always postponed until a stage when I may fully understand it, yet this stage can never be reached, since it would be one more moment, bounded by the horizon of its future, and requiring in its turn further developments in order to be understood."
"We are not falling here into the realistic mistake of using the visual spectacle as a source of directions in space, since the spectacle experimentally provided is turned (obliquely) for us only in relation to a certain level, and since, therefore, it does not give us by itself the new up and down axis."
"Thus we do not recognize the appearance of what we have often seen, and on the other hand we immediately recognize the visual representation of what is invisible to us in our own body."
"The plies the answer to the who of everyday Da sein, is the they, which sup nobody to whom every Dasein has always already surrendered itself, in its being among one another."
"What comes first, then, is the internal psychological analysis purely on the basis of the inner experience whereby use is made, quite naively, of the experiences of other human beings and of the conception of self experience as what belongs to me, one human being among human beings; that is, the objective validity of inferences to others is used; just as, in general, the whole investigation proceeds as an objective psychological one, indeed even has recourse to the physiological when it is precisely all this objectivity, after all, which is in question."
"Now, as we have seen, the perception of our own body and the perception of external things provide an example of non positing consciousness, that is, of consciousness not in possession of fully determinate objects, that of a logic lived through which cannot account for itself, and that of an immanent meaning which is not clear to itself and becomes fully aware of itself only through experiencing certain natural signs."
"And every object will be, in the first place and in some respect, a natural object, made up of colours, tactile and auditory qualities, in so far as it is destined to enter my life."
"In more general terms we must not wonder whether our self evident truths are real truths, or whether, through some perversity inherent in our minds, that which is self evident for us might not be illusory in relation to some truth in itself."
"Such determination is achieved by means of numbers and calculation."
"I' crashing somewhere onto the scene."
"As this simple thing, the I is not a definition of other things: it is itself not a predicate, but the absolute subject."
"Accordingly, this newly established vocational interest, whose universal subject matter is called the life world, finds its place among the other life interests or vocations and it has its proper time within the one personal time, the form of the various exercised vocational times."
"The world of Dasein is a with world."
"The problematic issue that prevails here, then, comes to a head at the very place in the discussion where the essence of language and of poetry is touched upon, all this, again, only in reference to the belonging together of being and saying."
"However, the psychologists who practise the description of phenomena are not normally aware of the philosophical implications of their method."
"But it is still the idea of a causal link, in the sense of a relationship of function to variable."
"The speaker speaks to it and from it."
"We translate this freely as to geniessen which, in its original form niessen means to take joy in something and so to have it in use."
"To determine is to predicate; to determine originally and self evidently is to form perceptual judgments, and to determine mediately is to form empirically general judgments (inductive, experiential judgments) and empirically causal judgments, etc."
"But it only becomes actual in preserving."
"As this making present that gets tangled up in itself, curiosity has an ecstatic unity with a corresponding future and having been."
"It is, then, true in the last resort that analytical re<U+FB02>ection entirely rests on a dogmatic idea of being, and that in this sense it does not amount to an act of selfdiscovery."
"but without realizing that a complete reform of understanding is called for if we are to translate phenomena accurately; 'attention' and 'judgement' and that to this end the objective thinking of classical logic and philosophy will have to be questioned, the categories of the world laid aside, the alleged self evidence of realism placed in doubt, in the Cartesian sense, and a true 'phenomenological reduction' undertaken."
"Cases of ambiguous perception in which we can at will choose our anchorage are those in which our perception is artificially cut off from its context and its past, in which we do not perceive with our whole being, in which we play a game with our body and with that generality which enables it at any time to break with any historical commitment and to function on its own account."
"This world the totality of such objects is already objective insofar as the knowledge it affords, the ideals formed of it, are absolutely identical for anyone who practices the method, no matter how much his empirically intuitive representation may differ from what serves others in their intuition based idealization."
"us our new way by devoting an exclusive, consistently theoretical interest to the life world as the general ground of human world life and, specifically, to just the way in which it fulfills this general ground function."
"is Paul's doing; in each case it is the doing of pre personal forms of consciousness, whose communication raises no problem, since it is demanded by the very definition of consciousness, meaning or truth."
"He took for granted only pure mathematics and the old familiar way of applying it."
"on the other hand, what forms the basis once and for all of our ideas of truth."
"We have seen, to start with, that after an empiricist phase, the theory of aphasia, since Pierre Marie, seemed to move over to intellectualism, and that, in linguistic disturbances, it invoked the 'representative function' (Darstellungsfunktion) or 'categorial' activi and that it based speech on thought."
"Through this giving and receiving the supranational whole, with all its social levels, ascends, filled with the exuberant spirit of an infinite task, a task which is divided into various infinite spheres but is still one."
"Eternity is the time that belongs to dreaming, and the dream refers back to waking life, from which it borrows all its structures."
"In the projectedness of its being upon the for the sake of which together with that upon significance (world) lies the disclosedness of being in general.t"
"With a view to a possible anthropology or its ontological foundation, the following interpretation will provide only a few parts, although not inessential ones."
"The simplest images or sensations are, in the last analysis, all that there is to understand in words, concepts being a complicated way of designating them, and as they are themselves inexpressible impressions, understanding is a fraud or an illusion."
"Thus one must quite systematically inquire back into those things taken for granted which, not only for Kant but for all philosophers, all scientists, make up an unspoken ground Grund of their cognitive accomplishments, hidden in respect to its deeper mediating functions."
"The existential concept of death has been established, and thus we have also established that to which an authentic being toward the end should be able to relate itself."
"Modern philosophy's concept of an a priori science, which is ultimately a universal mathematics (logic, logistic), cannot therefore have the dignity of actual self evidence,.e., the dignity of essential insight obtained from direct self giving (experiencing intuition), much as it would like to claim this for itself."
"The fact, remains, however, that the primary meaning of discourse is to be found in that text of experience which it is trying to communicate."
"Rising up within itself the work opens up a world and keeps it abidingly in force."
"the fact of the sensory experience as the assumption of a form of existence."
"But can the world, and human existence in it, truthfully have a meaning if the sciences recognize as."
"So that finally nowhere would there be love of others or indeed others, but one single self love linked to itself beyond our own lives, and nowise relevant, indeed inaccessible, to us."
"Still less can science appeal to the presages of a better, which are to be found present in untrue knowledge and are there pointing the way toward science; for, on the one hand, it would be appealing again in the same way to a merely existent fact; and, on the other, it would be appealing to itself, to the way in which it exists in untrue knowledge,.e."
"It is not, therefore, outside myself that I am able to find a limit to my freedom."
"What the modern period calls the theory of the understanding or of reason in the pregnant sense critique of reason, transcendental problematics has the roots of its meaning in the Cartesian Meditations."
"But a central theory would get us no further if it added no more to the peripheral conditions of the imaginary limb than cerebral symptoms."
"But does it not go against the rules of a sound method when the approach to a problematic does not stick to the evident data of the the I. matic realm?"
"The constancy of circular shape in a plate is not the resistance of the circle to the <U+FB02>attening of perspective, and this is why the painter who can represent it only by a real outline on a real canvas surprises the viewer, although he is trying to render perspective as experienced."
"But as a psychologist he was engaged in a task which by nature pulled him back into himself, and he could not allow himself to remain unaware to this extent."
"The they is an existential and belongs as a primordial phenomenon to the positive constitution of Da sein."
"That is why Holderlin says in the unfinished hymn Mnemosyne (written shortly after the elegy Bread and Wine ):"
"At the same time, it contains an ontic indication, albeit an undifferentiated one, that an I is always this being, and not others."
"The more exclusively a science becomes focused on the complete carrying out and mastery of its process of work ing, the more these activities arc without illusion shifted into research institutes and professional schools for research, then the more irresistibly do the sciences achieve the completion of their modem essence."
"The inter pretation of the average understanding of being attains its necessary guideline only with the developed concept of being."
"Here the madman fel silent and looked again at his audience; they."
"The spiritual shape of Europe"
"For example, Einstein uses the Michelson experiments and the corroboration of them by other researchers, with apparatus copied from Michelson's, with everything required in the way of scales of measurement, coincidences established, etc."
"The possibility that historiography in general can be either an advantage or a disadvantage. ."
"Hence the contribution can also never sublate aujbeben"
"Even in the early stages of Greek philosophy, and not by accident, cognition was conceived in terms of the desire to see."
"We emphasized the fact that whereas moods are ontically familiar, they are not cognized in their primordial and existential function."
"These things can become historiographical material only because they have a world historica character in accordance with their own kind of being."
"Truth does not 'inhabit' only 'the inner man', or more accurately, there is no inner man, man is in the world, and only in the world does he know himself."
"In Husserl's language, beneath the 'intentionality of the act', which is the thetic consciousness of an object, and which, in intellectual memory for example, converts 'this' into an idea, we must recognize an 'operative' intentionality (fungierende Intentionalit t) which makes the former possible, and which is what Heidegger terms transcendence."
"With the factical disclosedness of world, nature has been discovered for Da sein."
"What distinguishes it from the objectify a priori sciences is its method and its goal."
"This equipment belongs in the wodd of the peasant to the 'th and finds protection woman."
"And her doubt about her scorn. ."
"The fact that I classify the voices and visions of my interlocutor as hallucinations means that I find nothing similar in my visual or auditory world."
"The plete com experience of conscience can only be grasped from understanding the summons together with it."
"eJa means the unconcealment of beings."
"othing less than the establishment of the pre cedence of methodology over the beings (of nature and history) which, at a particular time, are objectified in research."
"seeing view becomes comprehensible through the interpretation."
"Blue seems to 'yield to our gaze,' says Goethe."
"Other men, and myself, seen as empirical beings, are merely pieces of mechanism worked by springs, but the true subject is irrepeatable, for that consciousness which is hidden in so much <U+FB02>esh and blood is the least intelligible of occult qualities."
"A further point can be made in connection with the givenness of essence: it does not constitute itself just on the basis of perception, and the retention woven within perception, in such a way that it, so to speak, plucks out a universal from the phenomenon itself; rather, it constitutes itself by izing the appearing object, positing universal a universal with regard to it: for instance, temporal content in general, duration in general, change in general."
"Existentially expressed, being with one another has the character of distantiality."
"Even if one rejects a sub stantial soul, the thingliness of consciousness and the objectivity of the person, ontologically one still posits something whose being retains the meaning of objctive presence, whether explicitly or not."
"Yet at least it provides the possibility of such presence, and establishes our first consonance with the world."
"Care cannot mean a special attitude toward the self, because the self is already char acterized ontologically as being ahead of itself; but in this determination the other two structural moments of care, already being in.and being together with, are also posited."
"that precisely when the point posits itself for itself, the now turns up."
"Thus the sentence in my Ideas toward a Pure Phenomenology and Phenomenological Philosophy which was able to give rise to objections when it was torn from the context of the presentation there of the phenomenological epoche, was completely correct: one can say of a simple tree that it burns up, but a perceived tree as such cannot burn up; that is, it is absurd to say this of it, for one is expecting a component of a pure perception, thinkable only as a moment belonging to an ego subject's own essence, to do something which can have meaning only for a wooden body: to burn up."
"Thus it is by no means a temporary act, which remains incidental and isolated in its various repetitions."
"The food refused by the victim of hallucinations is poisoned only for him, but to this extent it is poisoned irrefutably."
"Man displays aiwellt)"
"In its character of project, understanding constitutes existentially what we call the sight of Da sein."
"Every thing real becomes a schema when it is considered as a thing in itself, when it is not experienced."
"I tence which we have posited gives us an outline of the formal structure of the understanding of Dasein in general, and does so in a way that is not binding from an existentiell point of view."
"For this amounts to admitting that a symptom, at the time of its onset, always finds raisons d' tre in the subject, so that no event in a life is, strictly speaking, externally determined."
"This de ranged man is moved out (hinausgeriicktl beyonderstwhile man."
"Consequently we do not require to bring criteria with us, nor to apply our fancies and thoughts in the inquiry; and just by our leaving these aside we are enabled to consider the matter as it actually is itselfand for itself."
"Lessing once said: language can express everything we think clearly."
"This object is genuinely present and fully comprehended when the powers of my body adjust themselves to it and overlap it."
"The structure of the personal surrounding world stands in essential relation to the structure of personal life (with personal habituality) which, as world life, is a comporting of oneself toward objects appearing in the surrounding world and their properties belonging to the surrounding world."
"expe riences the marks"
"It brings away by realizing what it has received in its fullness."
"Thus every in itself is a mathematical in itself, and all causal laws must be mathematical laws."
"It is recalled, says Hering, every time we see an object we already know, 'or believe we see it'."
"First of all, we must characterize being toward death as a being toward a possibility, toward an eminent possibility of Dasein itself."
"On the contrary, every transcendental philosophy which was not erring in the direction of empiricism and skepticism saw the slightest admixture of psychology as a betrayal of its true undertaking, and waged a constant battle against psychologism a battle that was meant to have, and did have, the effect that the philosopher was not permitted to concern himself at all with objective psychology."
"Let ting beings be relevant and thus freeing them for a totality of relevance must have already somehow disclosed that for which it is freeing."
"At the same time; however, this truth is the truth of beings as such; metaphysics is as this truth."
"Vision without inversion,."
"It is no longer objectively present."
"All consciousness is consciousness of something'; there is nothing new in that."
"It is by no means merely objectively present in the piece of space that its body fills out."
"goes hand in hand with positing a parity in their subject matter as welL Even today one must still reckon with the prevailing opinion that philosophy, more specifically, the overarching theory of being and science, can not only be related to all the other sciences, but can also be grounded on their findings in the same way that the sciences are grounded upon each other, the conclusions of one serving as the premi ses for others."
"That world has itself grown lifeless:"
"Dasein becomes essential in authentic existence that is constituted as anticipatory resoluteness."
"Philosophy will never seek to deny its presuppositions, but neither may it merely admit them."
"Especially when one looks exclusively at the flux of nows, it is incomprehensible in itself why the sequence of nows should not accommodate itself to the reverse direction."
"The referral serviceability for, on the other hand, is an ontological, categorical determination of the useful thing as useful thing."
"In a word, it is a limitation to the sphere of pure evidence, evidence here understood in a strict sense that excludes mediate evidence and,"
"Everydayness is, after all, precisely the being between birth and death."
"But is it then such, not suitable to the phenomenon to leave unasked the question of who the caller is?"
"The handing down of a possibility that has been in retrieving it, however, does not disclose the Dasein that has been there in order to actualize it again."
"The violent presentation of possibilities of existence may be required for our method, but can it escape being merely arbitrary?"
"Because we are in the world, we are condemned to meaning, and we cannot do or say anything without its acquiring a name in history."
"objectively present."
"The word phenomenology, which was already commonly used in academic phi losophy at the time, takes the place of the word experience."
"space objective truth"
"It exists primarily in its selfevidence, and any attempt to define the thing either as a pole of my bodily life, or as a permanent possibility of sensations, or as a synthesis of appearances, puts in place of the thing itself in its primordial being an imperfect reconstruction of the thing with the aid of bits and pieces of subjective provenance."
"This being which we our selves in each case are and which includes inquiry among the possibilities of its being we formulate terminologicall as Da sein."
"This is the general sense of science though of course beginning naively, it does not attain the full world"
"But we call many things existent seier.d and in different senses."
"What we want to know is how an object can appear to us as 'the right way up' or 'inverted', and what these words mean."
"It is the ground for history and art and for nature in the narrower sense."
"So the question is not so much whether human life does or does not rest on sexuality, as of knowing what is to be understood by sexuality."
"It is a fundamental existential mode of being of the equiprimordial disclosedness of world, being there with, and existence because this disclosure itself is essentially being in the world."
"Granted that in translation we must take every care to attend to the philologically clarified language, first and foremost"
"In its familiar being in relevance, understanding holds itself before that disclosure as that within which its reference moves."
"The cube with its sides distorted by perspective nevertheless remains a cube, not because I imagine the successive aspects of the six faces if I turned the cube round in my hand, but because the perspective distortions are not raw data, any more than is the perfectly symmetrical shape which faces me."
"Therefore it appeals to something true, which means something that is certain even for criticism, something whose certainty, however, is supposed still to exist though cut off from the unconditional self certainty of everything that is certain."
"We need only direct our thematic gaze toward this relativity in order to recognize that this natural science belongs to the broader content of the personal science of earthly humanity in general, the latter being understood as we men, .e., humanity acquiring its temporal horizon and its relative and (in a broad sense) historical temporality from us who are the investigators."
"Even shouts or a distant light people it only vaguely, and then it comes to life in its entirety; it is pure depth without foreground or background, without surfaces and without any distance separating it from me."
"What cons titutes its ontological meaning?"
"With the expression self, we answered the question of the who ofDa sein."
"It would seem, on the other hand, that consciousness comes back into its rights and into full possession of itself, if I consider my awareness of 'psychic facts'."
"Like death, this phenomenon of Dasein requires a genuinely existential interpretation."
"Nothing determines me from outside, not because nothing acts upon me, but, on the contrary, because I am from the start outside myself and open to the world."
"Take, for example, 'number blindness'."
"This involves a type of universal epoche, then, which serves here only to isolate the subject matter of subsequent investigations, of whose possible results, by the way, we still have no conception."
"The peasant woman wears her shoes in the field."
"The existential structure of an authentic being toward death must let itself be projected with these positive and prohibitive instructions."
"It is not given to the subject as a construction, and has no place in the 'geographical world', in the being, that is, which we know and judge, in the network of facts subject to laws, but in the individual 'landscape' through which the world impinges upon us, and by means of which we are in vital communication with it."
"This is as true of psychology as it is of the so called concrete humanistic disciplines."
"No, the step that we took leads us further."
"They arouse in us only second order thoughts; these in turn are translated into other words which demand from us no real effort of expression and will demand from our hearers no effort of comprehension."
"Aristotle, the father of logic, attributed truth to judgment as its primordial locus, he also started the definition of truth as agreement."
"What may give the impre."
"If we try to make it comprehensible by analyzing it into numbers of oscillations it is gone."
"Thus thinglike being needs a supplement."
"In the same way the perceived contains gaps which are not mere 'failures to perceive'."
"the parts of the spectacle, being unable singly to summon up the vision of lighting, made this possible by their union, and also as if, into the colour values spread through the field, someone read the possibility of a systematic transformation."
"However, the question will be raised about what that appearing is in which science alone can appear."
"The doctor who brings to bear upon the patient 'visual' or 'auditory stimuli' believes that he is testing 'visual' or 'auditory sensibility' and drawing up an inventory of sensible qualities which make up consciousness (in empiricist language) or of the material at the disposal of cognition (in intellectualist language)."
"The name anthropology, here, does not refer to an inves tigation of humanity by natural science."
"In Plato and Aristotle, ov and a confront us as conceptual words."
"But science, in the very fact that it comes on the scene, is itself a phenomenon; its coming on the scene is not yet itselfcarried out in all the length and breadth of it.'i truth."
"This dis The self of everyday Dasein is the from the they self"
"When we come back to phenomena we find, as a basic layer of experience, a whole already pregnant with an irreducible meaning: not sensations with gaps between them, into which memories may be supposed to slip, but the features, the layout of a landscape or a word, in spontaneous accord with the intentions of the moment, as with earlier experience."
"In what sense is time endless?"
"But only by setting forth the existential structure implied in our understanding of the summons when we hear it authentically, shall we attain a completely adequate interpretation of what is called in the call."
"Whether such a question presents a possible theoretical question at all is not to be decided here."
"Wahrheit (Logische Untersuchungen, Prolegomena zur reinen Logik)."
"Before exposing the meaning of being of the being revealed in its fundamental phenomenal content, the course of our inquiry needs to pause, not in order to rest, but in order to gain new momentum."
"Their significance is prior to the distinction of locative adverbs and personal pronouns."
"a realm than its character as a realm is represented as .J"
"Take, for example, amnesia relating to names of colours."
"In fact, the measuring of thresholds tests functions prior to any specific identification of sensible qualities and to the elaboration of knowledge, the way in which the subject makes his surroundings exist for him, either as a pole of activity and the terminus of an act of seizure or expulsion, or else as a spectacle and theme of knowledge."
"When what the discourse is about is heard naturally, however, we can at the same time hear the way in which it is said, the diction, but this, too, only by previously understanding what is spoken."
"Even when actualized, as something actual it remains possible for."
"He also calls it untrue consciousness."
"But even this way of characterizing what still remains does not exhaust the complete phenomenal findings with regard to Da sein."
"This much, then, as a first indication of the deeper meaning of our project in these lectures."
"The category imposes on the terms brought together a meaning external to them."
"Re<U+FB02>ection does not withdraw from the world towards the unity of consciousness as the world's basis; it steps back to watch the forms of transcendence"
"But and this is the point we are trying to make it is not therefore a notional unity."
"In Wahrheit singen, ist ein andrer lauch."
"But as soon as we begin there, we notice certain limitations."
"The not yet of unripeness does not mean something other which is outstanding that could be objectively present in and with it in a way indifferent to the fruit."
"Experience is the absoluteness of the absolute; it appears in the absolving appearing to itself."
"To answer these questions we must initially restrict ourselves to clarifying the ana lytic of Da sein, as the questions themselves demand."
"But certainty is The expression certainty, like the expression truth, has a double meaning."
"pass all living beings insofar as they have, even indirectly but still verifiably, something like life, and even communal life in the spiritual geistige sense."
"When I have taken up this attitude, at the same time as the world is atomized into sensible qualities, the natural unity of the perceiving subject is broken up, and I reach the stage of being unaware of myself as the subject of a visual field."
"I am sitting in my room, and I look at the sheets of white paper lying about on the table, some in the light shed through the window, others in the shadow."
"The fixedness of the facts and the constancy of their change as such is the rule."
"What conception of beings and what interpretation of truth lies at the basis of these phenomena?"
"If, then, taken as incomparable qualities, the 'data of the different senses' belong to so many separate worlds, each one in its particular essence being a manner of modulating the thing, they all communicate through their significant core."
"The manner of access and inter pretation must instead be chosen in such a way that this being can show itself to itself on its own terms."
"Only then must one take the psychophysically abnormal into account."
"Neither the shadow nor the grad uated dial is time itself, nor is the spatial relation between them."
"space which is measured as in physical theory by the number of facts which it co ordinates."
"Experience, self evidence, is not an empty generality but is differentiated according to the species, genera, and regional categories of what is and also according to all spatiotemporal modalities."
"Then it can neither be said that beings are, nor that they are not."
"Making present is held up, that is, in the unity of the awaiting that retains, it shifts more to itself and thus constitutes the inspection, checking, and removal of the disturbance."
"Thus the confusion cannot be removed by creating, via some kind of a definition, a more precise meaning of the words ov and elvat, being and to be."
", it takes in not only the totality universe of consciousness but also the totality of the world."
"Within the scope of temporality we must accordingly search for an occurrence that deter mines existence as historical."
"not myself conceive this spatial relationship and thus escape inherence at the very instant at which I conceive it?"
"De distancing means making distance disap pear,t making the being at a distance of something disappear, bringing it near."
"The greyness which, when I close my eyes, surrounds me, leaving no distance between me and it, the sounds that encroach on my drowsiness and hum 'in my head' perhaps give some indication of what pure sensation might be."
"But considered more exactly, what we have displayed so far,.e."
"But everywhere, in our time, the burning need for an understanding of the spirit announces itself; and lack of clarity about the methodical and material relation between the natural sciences and the humanistic disciplines has become almost unbearable."
"Still, the quality of the not is present in the idea of guilty."
"Insofar as he is not and has understood himself in this being, he has obliterated Da sein, and thus truth, in the despair of suicide."
"We must think ofthis production Her stellen in its wide and diverse essence."
"Thus the development of anticipatory resoluteness as an existen tielly possible authentic potentiality for being a whole loses the character of an arbitrary construction."
"How is the phenomenal."
"Only then do we allow ourselves the undistoned presence of the thing."
"This can have a sense similar to that of the practical attitude of the politician, who, as a natural functionary, is directed toward the general welfare,.e."
"inductively psychophysically"
"As long as the presupposition has not been demonstrated clearly in its legitimacy, it remains puzzling how the relation of Dasein to itself is to disclose the other as other."
"The designation First Half, which previous editions bore, has been deleted."
"But this supposed framework itself belong to the kind of being of Da sein."
": They arc, you say, like the wine god's sacred priests, Vho roamed from land to land during the sacred night."
"But, on the strictly inductive plane this interpretation, in which touch is primarily involved, remains optional, and we may always prefer, with Goldstein, a different one:"
"That means that we cannot subject our perception of the world to philosophical scrutiny without ceasing to be identified with that act of positing the world, with that interest in it which delimits us, without drawing back from our commitment which is itself thus made to appear as a spectacle, without passing from the fact of our existence to its nature, from the Dasein to the Wesen."
"The process from start to finish has a triangle in view."
"For Greek thought, the essence of knowing is based on ciAi) eta, on, that is, the unconcealment of beings."
"But in the reductio ad absurdum no contact is necessarily made with the actual workings of consciousness."
"The four meanings have a connection in that they are related to human being as the subject of events."
"The fact remains that I am free, not in spite of, or on the hither side of, these motivations, but by means of them."
"Standing there, the building holds its place against the storm raging above it"
"This belongs to the essential thrownness of Dasein into the world."
"With one blow he must put out of effect the totality of his participation in the validities explicitly or implicitly effected by the persons who are his subjects; and this means all persons."
"Since this latter conceives itself as culture, values become cultural values and these become the general ex pression of the highest goals of creation devoted to the self establishment of man as subiectum."
"There we move in a current of ever new experiences, judgments, valuations, decisions."
"Only in this way can we, who not only have a spiritual heritage but have become what we are thoroughly and exclusively in a historical spiritual manner, have a task which is truly our own."
"Such mastery has long since evolved far re moved from the precinct of individuals' personal views and opinions."
"Isn't it your dream to he invisible one day?"
"The antagonism between the life of the plane and the life of depth nevertheless to contain some truth, a truth to be made actually accessible to insight which is indeed the case it would be possible only through the fact that the transcendental functions which are supposed to explain the above mentioned enigmas concerning objectively valid knowledge belong to a dimension of the living spirit that had to remain hidden, because of very natural inhibitions, from humanity and even from the scientists of the ages whereas this A dimension can be made accessible to scientific understanding, through a method of disclosure appropriate to it, as a realm of experiential and theoretical self evidence."
"We can answer this if we go back to the complete essential structure of world time and compare this with that with which the vulgar understanding of time is familiar."
"The abstention from performing individual validities (similar to the way this occurs in a critical attitude, caused by theoretical or practical demands) only creates for each instance a new mode of validity on the natural ground of the world; and the situation is not improved if we wish to exercise, through an anticipatory, universal resolve, the abstention from the performance, one by one, of all validities, even to infinity,.e., in respect to all of one's own or alien validities which from now on could ever suggest themselves."
"The place of its st:Jying. '"
"human thought in its factual reality, but to base it on a thought which possesses itself absolutely."
"It affords the first insight into the thoroughgoing meaning fulness Sinnhaftigkeit which unifies the whole movement of philosophical history in the modern period: a unity of purpose binding generations of philosophers together, and through this a direction for all the efforts of individual subjects and schools."
"We are not prepared to interpret the elegies and sonnets, for the realm from which they speak has, in its metaphysical condition and oneness, not yet been sufficiently thought from out of the essence of metaphysics."
"Like events, words are for the patient not the theme of an act of drawing together or projecting, but merely the occasion for a methodical Benary, op."
"But the mathematician, the natural scientist, at best a highly brilliant technician of the method to which he owes the disc."
"Objects no longer exist for the arm of the apraxic, and this is what causes it to remain immobile."
"We have only to think of the num bers of atomic physics."
"The verificational character of natural science's fundamental hypothesis."
"Perception does not draw conclusions about the size of the tree from that of the man, or about the man's size from the tree's, nor either from the meaning of the two objects; it does all these things at once:"
"Nor does retaining what is relevant mean holding fast to it thematically."
"Much closer to us than any sensation arc the things themselves."
"Besides, though the saying is indeed the oldest preserved in our tradition, we do not know whether it is the earliest saying of its kind in Western thought."
"If it is said that my temperament inclines me particularly to either sadism or masochism, it is still merely a manner of speaking, for my temperament exists only for the second order knowledge that I gain about myself when I see myself as others see me, and in so far as I recognize it, confer value upon it, and in that sense, choose it."
"That the world does consist of what is a hand can be seen from the fact (among others) that when the world appears in the modes of taking care which we have just interpreted, what is at hand becomes deprived of its worldliness so that it appears as something merely objec tively present."
"It is well to take note of this when one speaks of the power of the new idea of philosophy, having its effect throughout the whole modern period in all sciences and culture, as it was first grasped and mastered in a relatively stable way by Descartes."
"something from which there emanates a woody essence; these 'sensory givens' modulate a certain theme or illustrate a certain style which is the wood itself, and which creates, round this piece of wood and the perception I have of it, a horizon of significance."
"This condition is valid far beyond geometry for all spiritual structures which are to be unconditionally and generally capable of being handed down."
"And for son this rea it must also necessarily proclaim as violent anything lying beyond the scope of its understanding as well as any move in that direction."
"Ul cd, and retained. '"
"The historical reflections we embarked upon, in order to arrive at the self understanding which is so necessary in our philosophical situation, demanded clarity concerning the origin of the modern spirit and, together with that because of the significance, which cannot be overestimated, of mathematics and mathematical natural science clarity concerning the origin of these sciences."
"Our errors become truths only once they are recognized, and there remains a difference between their revealed and their latent content of truth, between their alleged and their actual significance."
"We hear the column on the march, the north wind, the woodpecker tapping, the crackling fire."
"When it rests, care turns into circumspection which has become free."
"This is no less true of psychology, whose anthropological tenden cies are unmistakable today."
"If the statement that truth is at work in the work is to be something more than a mere assertion, we must raise this question once again."
"Our visual field is not neatly cut out of our objective world, and is not a fragment with sharp edges like the landscape framed by the window."
"If, as Goldstein recognizes, the co existence of the tactile with the visual data, in the case of the normal person, modifies the former sufficiently to enable them to provide a background for abstract movement, the tactile data of the patient, which are cut off from the visual contribution, cannot be forthwith identified with those of the normal person."
"In the epoche neither logic nor any a priori nor any philosophical demonstration in the venerable old style can provide us with artillery."
"Its development requires tracking down the equivocations in the right way."
"The Theme of the Analytic of Dasein"
"It did not enter the mind of a Galileo that it would ever become relevant, indeed of fundamental importance, to geometry, as a branch of a universal knowledge of what is (philosophy), to make geometrical self evidence"
"psychologist who has not learned, in the phenomenological sense which makes the true epoche possible, to understand the superficial as such and to inquire into its immense depth dimensions, all the genuinely psychological apperceptions are lacking and thus also all possibilities of asking genuinely psychological questions,.e., working questions, which must already have a prefigured horizon of meaning."
"For example, visual representation does not explain abstract movement, for it is itself endowed with the same power of throwing out a spectacle which is revealed in abstract movement and the act of pointing."
"In so far as it carries within it 'sense organs', bodily existence is never self sufficient, it is always a prey to an active nothingness, it continually sets the prospect of living before me, and natural time at every successive moment"
"As opposed to the nearest finding of a multiply undeter mined manifold of useful things, the experience of a thing requires its own definiteness."
"Science, by contrast, is not an original happening of truth but always the cultivation of adomain of truth that has already been opened."
"The completed object is translucent, being shot through from all sides by an infinite number of present scrutinies which intersect in its depths leaving nothing hidden."
"null Ang:st of oneself."
"Whether or not the importance of the research always lies in such estab lishment of concepts, its true progress comes about not so much in col lecting results and storing them in handbooks as in being forced to ask questions about the basic constitution of each area, these questions eing chiefly a reaction to increasing knowledge in each area."
"As the will to power, will is the command to more power."
"World functions as an ontological term and signifies the being of those beings named in."
"Despite its new beginning, it attends to the very same question: what is the being?"
"The character of mood and fear lies in the fact that the awaiting that fears is afraid for itself, that is, fear of is a fearing about."
"The life world can be disclosed as a realm of subjective phenomena which have remained anonymous."
"Care is being toward death."
"An emotion, circumstance which recalls those in which the wound was received, creates a phantom limb in subjects who had none."
"It has a goal of its own, provided that the question of being is the spur for all scientific search over and above the acquisition of information about beings."
"But then what else presents itself with this phenomenon ther than the objectively present commercium between an objectively present subjectand an objectively present object?"
"What makes possible this authentic being a whole of Dasein with regard to the unity of its articu lated structural whole?"
"This is the real place to begin the leap into Da sein."
"Whether its authors are aware of it or not, they are trying to formulate what we shall call an existential theory of aphasia, that is, a theory which treats thought and objective language as Notions of this kind appear in the works of Head, van Woerkom, Bouman and Gr nbaum, and Goldstein."
"Appearance is the criterion."
"Standing around is an existential mode of being, the lingering with every thing and nothing which lacks heedfulness and circumspection."
"But if the objectis and remains something transcendent, and if knowing and the objectare actually separate, then surely he can see nothing here, and his hopes for finding a way to somehow achieve clarity by drawing conclusions from transcendent presuppositions are obviously foolish."
"It is proper to a whole class of spiritual products of the cultural world, to which not only all scientific constructions and the sciences themselves belong but also, for example, the constructions of fine literature."
"And placing before, rep Vor stellenj gathered out of the Greek notion of apprehension, resentation becomes making fast and fixing in place."
"Not only arc we not prepared to interpret the elegies and sonnets, but we are not entitled to do so, since the essential realm of the dialogue between poetry and thinking can be reconnoitered, attained, and thought through only slowly."
"then, does the certainty belonging to such resoluteness mean?"
"But before we could pose further and now important questions, we had to take this step."
"We clarified understanding itself, whereby at the same time the methodical transparency of the procedure of interpreting being by understanding and interpreting it has been guaranteed."
"This can no more he grasped by taking beauty by itself than it can in terms of experience supposing that the metaphysical concept of art is adequate to the essence of art."
"Or, if for accidental, factual reasons a science's access to its a priori sources were blocked, how could the kind of thinking we have attempted here ever begin,"
"every time we are able to compare our memories with the objects to which they refer, we are surprised, even allowing for other sources of error, at the changes which they owe to their own duration."
"Only because beings in general are discovered by Dasein in their remoteness do distances and intervals among innerworldly beings become accessible in relation to other things."
"The order of succession in which experiences run their course is not valid for the phenomenal structure of existing."
"The ownmost nonrelational possibility not to be bypassed is tain."
"Such saying is a projection of the clearing in which announcement is made as to what beings will come into the open as."
"only if an ontologically adequate, that is, an existential concept of death has been attained."
"The new motif of returning to the ego, once it had entered history, revealed its inner strength through the fact that in spite of falsifications and obfuscations it introduced a new philosophical age and implanted within it a new telos."
"demon strates itself when the speaker turns around and perceives the picture hanging crookedly on the wall."
"However, if our thinking is based on the subject matter, then the book's title does not matter; the work itself does."
"Before asking this question, let us look closely at what is implied in the rediscovery of our own body."
"The fact of conscience cannot be coupled with such proofs and counter proofs at all."
"My friend Paul and I point out to each other certain details of the landscape; and Paul's finger, which is pointing out the church tower, is not a finger for me that I think of as orientated towards a church tower for me, it is Paul's finger which itself shows me the tower that Paul sees, just as, conversely, when I make a movement towards some point in the landscape that I can see, I do not imagine that I am producing in Paul, in virtue of some pre established harmony, inner visions merely analogous to mine: I believe, on the contrary, that my gestures invade Paul's world and guide his gaze."
"Still, the existentially more primordial interpretation also discloses possibilities of a more primordial existentiell understanding, as long as our ontological concepts do not get cut off from ontic experience."
"These connections are not conglomerations, but rather unities that are characteristically bound up, congruent as it were, unities of knowledge, which, as unified, also have their unified objective correlates."
"Being ahead of itself has gotten lost in a just always already among."
"What, on the other hand, happens in experiments in which the patient fails?"
"In exhibiting this, we are not led into remote, separate areas of Da sein; we merely get a conception of the total phenomenal content of the existential fundamental constitution of Dasein in the ultimate foundations of its own ontological intelligibility."
"I!)O)u Wo aber die Gefahr ist, wachst Das Rettende auch."
"Many, that is, arc the things that prevent the apprehending of the being as what it is: both the un openness (concealment) of beings and the brevity of man's course in history."
"How does resoluteness, thought out in accordance with its ownmost tendency of being, lead us to authentic being toward death?"
"Two points become clear."
"What is to be demonstrated is not an agreement of knowing with its objct, still less omething psychical with something physical, but neither is it an agreement between the contents of consciousness among themselves."
"This comes about only through a mistaken, but entirely natural, shifting of(he problem: between the explanation Erklarung of knowledge as a natural fact as offered by the natural science of psychology, and the clarification Aujkllirung of knowledge in terms of the essential possibilities of its achievement."
"As the subjectity of the subject, unconditional self knowing is the absoluteness of the absolute."
"The patient has retained the formula of movement as a representation, but it no longer conveys anything to his right hand, or at any rate his right hand has no longer any sphere of action.' '"
"The presentation of merely phenomenal knowledge is the path of natural consciousness to science."
"Expending itself for the sake of itself, Dasein uses itself up."
"When the term body image was first used, it was thought that nothing more was being introduced than a convenient name for a great many associations of images, and it was intended merely to convey the fact that these associations were firmly established and constantly ready to come into play."
"Is not each resolution just one more single experience in the succession of the whole connection of experiences?"
"Nor is this world of living experience completely closed to na ve consciousness, as is Bergson's inferiority."
"What is discovered and disclosed stands in the mode in which it has been disguised and closed off by idle talk, curiosity, and ambiguity."
"Have we not substituted for the rationalist cogito which discovers a universal constituting consciousness in myself, the psychologist's cogito, which remains incommunicable within the experience of its life?"
"Perhaps this ontological guideline (handiness and useful things), too, can provide nothing for an interpretation of the primitive world, and certainly for an ontology of thingliness."
"For the constitution of the world, as conceived by it, is a mere requirement that to each term of the empiricist description be added the indication 'consciousness of. . .'"
"There is here nothing resembling the famous naturalistic conceptions which equate the artificial sign with the natural one, and try to reduce language to emotional expression."
"Perceptual consciousness does not give us perception as a body of organized knowledge, or the size and shape of the object as laws; the numerical specifications of science retrace the outline of a constitution of the world which is already realized before shape and size come into being."
"Is there not in the appearances themselves a content we must ascribe to true nature?"
"If this were the case, all that we have said would appear to be challenged, so that, far from appearing as a mere manner of existence, thought would truly monopolize us."
"What if res authentic truth of Da sein, reached the certainty authentically belonging to it only in the anticipation of death?"
"The whole field of <U+FFFD>sian has been wiped away."
"It is as if one could sometimes see 'the occasional collapse of the barriers established, in the course of evolution, between the senses."
"Nor does the appeal to experience gained affect the empiricist thesis."
"the production that asserts itself, and so it is subordinated to the command of production."
"Where the motor physiognomy of colour is constituted is not in the physicist's world, as a result of some occult process."
"Nonetheless, this one thing is now necessary: that out of reflection we are receptive to instruction and that on the way to instruction we learn to reflect."
"I interpretation fails to recognize the essentially critical accomplishment of conscience."
"True universal philosophy, together with all the special sciences, makes up only a partial manifestation of European culture."
"Actually the process whereby material mathematics is put into formal logical form, where expanded formal logic is made self sufficient as pure analysis or theory of manifolds, is perfectly legitimate, indeed necessary; the same is true of the technization which from time to time completely loses itself in merely technical thinking."
"Our relationship to the world, as it is untiringly enunciated within us, is not a thing which can be any further clarified by analysis; philosophy can only place it once more before our eyes and present it for our ratification."
"Dasein is always its possibility."
"the cogito from thoughts to the I, equally necessarily leads from the multiplicity of I's to one sole constituting consciousness, and prevents me from entertaining any vain hope of salvaging the finiteness of the subject by defining it as a 'monad'."
"It consists of a succession of experiences in time."
"why phenomenology has for so long remained at an initial stage, as a problem to be solved and a hope to be realized."
"What if this oblivion were the concealed essence of the desolation of the desolateness of the time?"
"The outline of my body is a frontier which ordinary spatial relations do not cross."
"the as is grounded in the ecstatic and horizontal unity of temporality."
"In the community of its life, the community, or the life of its persons, is related to the surrounding world which is communal for them (the personal world, and this surrounding world has relative actuality for them and a changing actuality for different personal communities and their personal times; but this fact does not exclude the possibility that personal communities, each of which has its personal surrounding world, can, by entering into or already being in relation with one another, have or attain an overlapping, common surrounding world or that they know themselves in their interrelations to be related to the same real world, only finding that each community views the world in quite a different way, accords it a completely different kind of actuality."
"For the first time in this work, its historical path requires that we pose questions in this manner and that we undertake new investigations with their own direction."
"What does the stating, that is, the determining, on the other hand, lies in the too heavy."
"Certainly, yet not by the inauthentic one of awaiting."
"This grasping which is free of the as is a privation of sim ple seeing, which understands; it is not more primordial than the latter, but something, our just having it before us lies before us derived from it."
"There are two such substances: The being of Descartes touches upon a problem which occupied medieval ontology in many ways, the question in what way the meaning of being signifies the being under consideration."
"I identify here the door, there the window, over there my table, all of which are the props and guides of a practical intention directed elsewhere, and which are therefore given to me simply as meanings."
"But as soon as reflection is directed upon the correlation between knowledge and objctiv ity (and eventually upon the ideal meaning content on the one side, and known objectivity on the other) difficulties, untenable positions, and conflicting but seemingly well grounded theories abound."
"This is the concrete, historical a priori which encompasses everything that exists as historical becoming and having become or exists in its essential being as tradition and handing down."
"It too rests on a certain groundwork."
"In what we suppose is eternity, something merely transitory Kangliches has been concealed, put away into the void of a now without duration."
"To be sure, it has not been without results, and it has revealed many, even practically valuable, empirical rules."
"What is it with this tendency to just perceive?"
"More and more the history of philosophy, seen from within, takes on the character of a struggle for existence,.e."
"Everything is monotonous, morning, noon, evening, past, present and future."
"So it is up to us to watch out for the right opportunity which allows us clearly to think the matter which the saying brings to language."
"We have seen that they were based on the object perceived."
"this regard, the constitution of the different modes of objectivity and their relation to each other: the givenness of the cogitatio, the givenness of the cogitatio re lived in a fresh memory, the givenness of the unity of appearances persisting in the phenomenal stream, the givenness pf the change in such a unity, the givenness of the thing outer perception, the givenness of the different forms of imagination and recollection, as well as the givenness of manifold perceptions and other kinds of representations that are synthetically unified in corresponding connections."
"The psychologist could not fail to rediscover himself as experience, which means as an immediate presence to the past, to the world, to the body and to others at the very moment when he was trying to see himself as an object among objects."
"The time initially found therein"
"The factors constitutive for the full phenomenon of fear can vary."
"It is not that historical research denies greamess in history; rather, it explains it as the exception."
"It turns against its previous way of existing the medieval and disowns it, seeking to shape itself anew in freedom."
"Nietzsche's thinking, as we must now learn to realize, is no less rigorously substantial than the thinking of Aristotle, who in the fourth book of the Metaphysics thinks the principle of contradiction as the first truth about the being of beings."
"What does meaning signify?"
"To be sure, knowledge becomes a problem for it in a certain wa)"
"Everything that exists exists in subjective manners of givenness, everything can be a subject matter either straightforwardly or subjectively relatively."
"The naivete of the current theory of the unconscious consists in the fact that it engrosses itself in these interesting phenomena which are pregiven in everyday life, undertakes an inductive empirical inquiry, proposes constructive explanations, and is tacitly guided all along by a naive and dogmatic implicit theory about consciousness of which it always makes use in spite of its demarcation of these phenomena from phenomena of consciousness, which are also taken in their everyday familiarity."
"However, for the complete phenomenal justification of this statement, a preliminary sketch of the connection between being toward death and care is not sufficient."
"If we attend, however, to the still untranslated portion it seems to say quite unambiguously to whom or what it is directed: The things which stay awhile let order belong a tiAo, to one another."
"In the dialectic of Kantian and an idealism, on the other hand, thesis, antithesis, and synthesis refer to a placing within the sphere of the subjectivity of consciousness."
"Realit ten and which is occasionally devaluated as doubtful or as invalid illusion only in individual details."
"We repeat the question:"
"Husserl makes rather extensive use in this work of the word Dasein as applied specifically to man's existence."
"The it calls me is an eminent kind of discourse of Da sein."
"If we so arrange it that the beam of an arc lamp falls exactly upon a black disc, and if the latter is set in motion to eliminate the in<U+FB02>uence of the roughness which is always present on its surface the disc appears, like the rest of the room, faintly lighted, and the beam of light is a whitish solid with the disc as its base."
"When we generalize the notion of sexuality, making it a manner of being in the physical and inter human world, do we mean, in the last analysis, that all existence has a sexual significance or that every sexual phenomenon has an existential significance?"
"Yet the problem of a possible metaphysics also encompassed eo ipso that of the possibility of the factual sciences, since these had their relational meaning that of truths merely for areas of what is in the indivisible unity of philosophy."
"Each thing appears to natural consciousness as though all presences were alongside each other."
"We must ask this question."
"We speak in this connection of the natural primordial attitude, of the attitude of original natural life, of the first originally natural form of cultures, whether higher or lower, whether developing uninhibitedly or stagnating."
"If the presentation of phenomenal knowledge is to be conducted by the results of considering the two determinations of consciousness, knowledge and truth, then all that the presentation can do is continually change its behavior into the opposite."
"Every spiritual shape exists essentially within a universal historical space or in a particular unity of historical time in terms of coexistence and succession; it has its history."
"Fahrrn is to reach for. ."
"Before we rashly decide whether Dasein draws its authentic possibilities of existence from.v thrownness or not, we must assure ourselves of the complete concept of this fundamental determination of care."
"It is not merely a counterpart to experience which might perhaps be absent."
"Like all cultural acquisitions which arise out of human accomplishment, they remain objectively knowable and available without requiring that the formulation of their meaning be repeatedly and explicitly renewed."
"But if the task is to change the vowel in the syllables given, no delay occurs."
"The three statements about consciousness outline the basic structure of this nature."
"The indeterminat, for its part, accords with the obscurity of the essential origin of value from being."
"I never wholly live in varieties of human space, but am always ultimately rooted in a natural and non human space."
"Descartes sees the fundamental ontological determination of the world as extensio."
"The existential temporal analysis of this being needs concrete confirmation."
"There is present a latent significance, diffused throughout the landscape or the city, which we find in something specific and self evident which we feel no need to define."
"One reflects, looks back upon one own acts, accepts their real reellen contents, just as they are, only under the phenomenological reduction."
"How should I find elsewhere, in my perceptual field, such a presence of self to self?"
"In going thoroughly, it works itself out fully lfohrt sich aus."
"To ask oneself whether the world is real is to fail to understand what one is asking, since the world is not a sum of things which might always be called into question, but the inexhaustible reservoir from which things are drawn."
"We could identify drift and action only by depriving the implicit of all phenomenal value, and at every instant arraying the world before us in perfect transparency, that is, by destroying the world's 'worldliness'."
"The worlds of Balzac and Stendhal are not like planets without communication with each other, for speech implants the idea of truth in us as the presumptive limit of its effort."
"When I call up a remote past, I reopen time, and carry myself back to a moment in which it still had before it a future horizon now closed, and a horizon of the immediate past which is today remote."
"This fashions us, outside of all defense, a safebeing, there where the gravi ty of the pure forces takes effect; what saves us at last is our defenselessness and that seeing it threaten we turned it into the open in order, somewhere, in the widest compass, where law touches us, to say yes to it."
"In short, it is a mistake to think that with the 'projection of memories' we are bringing into perception some mental activity, and that we have taken up a position opposed to that of empiricism."
"But the phenomenon of habit is just what prompts us to revise our notion of 'understand' and our notion of the body."
"Away from all the suns?"
"For in making the udgment that everything is doubtful it cannot be doubted that I am making this judgment."
", the ability to set and to recognize its object, only through the will to power."
"Similarly again, the meaning of a sentence is its import or intention, which once more presupposes a departure and arrival point, an aim and a point of view."
"They do not offer anything to the understanding of the issue and they hinder penetration into the field of investigation."
"Therefore man risks more."
"This priority diverts the path to a genuine existential analytic of Da sein, it also diverts our view of the being of innerworldly things initially at hand."
"We had to frequent the phenomenal field and become acquainted, through psychological descriptions, with the subject of phenomena."
"The eidetic reduction is, on the other hand, the determination to bring the world to light as it is before any falling back on ourselves has occurred, it is the ambition to make re<U+FB02>ection emulate the unre<U+FB02>ective life of consciousness."
"Here description does not mean a procedure like that of, say, botanical morphol ogy."
"But, remaining within the empirical certainty which we characterized, Dasein cannot become certain at all of death as it is."
": The essential relation between the will to power and the eternal return of the same must be thought in this way; however, we cannot yet represent here directly because metaphysics has neither considered nor even inquired about the origin of the distinction between essentia and existentia."
"To discourse belongs what is talked about in it."
"Clarify more precisely: saying and being a self."
"The meaning swallows up the signs, and Phaedra has so completely taken possession of Berma that her passion as Phaedra appears the apotheosis of ease and naturalness."
"Is it not the problem of hidden reason, which knows itself as reason only when it has become manifest?"
"space rediscover as my own."
"it is a result a result which contains what truth the preceding mode of knowledge has in it."
"For the realm of souls there is in principle no such ontology, no science corresponding to the physicalisticmathematical ideal, although psychic being is investigatable in transcendental universality, in a fully systematic way, and in principle in essential generality in the form of an a priori science."
"And all this is a process of unceasingly flowing change, which is also always a process of reciprocal correction."
"that is, the actual mode of attunement (of mood) which we showed to pertain to the full disclosedness of being in."
"Whether we are concerned with a thing perceived, a historical event or a doctrine, to 'understand' is to take in the total intention not only what these things are for representation"
"But this ito;clf rests in the fullness of an essential being of the equipment."
"But how is this positivity that is missing from what conscience does to be understood?"
"The whereto in general is prefigured by the referential totality established in a for the sake of which of heedfulness."
"The question is applicable not only to an empiricist psychology which treats the perception of space as the reception, within ourselves, of a real space, and the phenomenal orientation of objects as re<U+FB02>ecting their orientation in the world."
"how The fact that he knows that transcendent knowledge is actual guarantees for him as logically obvious the fact that transcendent knowledge is possible."
"Someone who must have known about it, Albrecht Diirer, made, after all, the well known remark: For in truth, art is found in nature; whoever can wrest it from her has it."
"Temporality is not a all."
"revealed in remains for it than ts own tentiality of being How else should it call than by summoning to this potentiality of being about which it is solely concerned?"
"'attention' and 'judgement' cannot compare these phenomena, which take the place of colour in children, to any determinate quality, and in the same way the 'strange' colours seen by a diseased person cannot be identified with any colour of the spectrum."
"In the peculiar temporality of Ang:s, in the fact that it is primor dially grounded in having been, and only out of this do future and pre sent temporalize themselves, the possibility was shown of the powerfulness that distinguishes the mood of Ang:s."
"This awaiting of discov eredness is grounded existentielly in a resoluteness of Dasein by means of which it proj ects itself upon its otentiality of being in the truth."
"only provided that I go beyond the order of phenomena or appearances and gain access to that of the eidos or of being."
"the how of making and invention."
"moves back towards them, and invests them with a meaning which they do not possess taken singly as psychological agents, but only when taken as a situation."
"Existing in this way, they extend enduringly through time, since all new acquisitions are in turn sedimented and become working materials."
"The problem of Greek ontology must, like that of any ontology, take ts guideline from Dasein itself."
"A reference to mate rials is contained in the work at the same time."
"However, it is the subject in such a way that science, part of subjectity, participates in constituting the absoluteness of the absolute."
"Philosophy looks at (sieht what is present in regard to its looks Se."
"We shall not only give a short presentation of the fundamental features of Descartes' ontology of the world, but also ask about its presuppositions and try to characterize those pre suppositions in the light of what has been clarified up to now."
"Indeed, if we project the consecutive Wertheimer, Experimentelle Studien, pp."
"Is it not paradoxical that no one had any idea of the diverse and difficult working problems contained under each of these headings?"
"But in any case the analogy makes it understandable that the universality of a practical attitude, now related to the whole world, by no means need imply an interest and a concern with all the details or all the particular totalities within the world, which would of course be unthinkable."
"When and how did our existential analytic make sure that by starting with everydayness it forced all ofDa sein"
"If we pose the question of world, which world is meant?"
"interpreted and expressed in everyday being with one another"
"It is precisely the original structure which they introduce that brings out the identity of the object before and after the act of attention."
"But what should Dasein even report from the uncanniness of its thrown being?"
"Space that is disclosed with the worldliness of the world does not yet have the characteristic of a pure manifold of three dimensions."
"What is articulated as such in interpretation and is prefigured as articulable in understanding in general is meaning."
"With Descartes, there begins the completion of Western metaphysics."
"In order to treat depth as breadth viewed in profile, in order to arrive at a uniform space, the subject must leave his place, abandon his point of view on the world, and think himself into a sort of ubiquity."
"If we now ask what shows itself in the phenomenal findings of knowing, we must remember that knowing itself is grounded before hand in already being in the world which essentially constitutes the being of Da sein."
"The first section of this book (aphorism no. is headed:"
"Does philosophy fulfill the sense of its primal establishment as the universal and ultimately grounding science if it leaves this realm to its anonymity"
"as certain ontically that what is psychically objctively"
"succeed through the intermediary of language: they name the colour of the exemplar and subsequently collect together all the samples which that name fits without looking back at the exemplar."
"There is no such thing as the being next to each other of a being called Dasein with another being called world."
"From the viewpoint of merely external historical scholarship, with its focus upon men existing in the world and upon the philosophies as theoretical constructs (systems of propositions), the history of philosophy is merely one cultural configuration among others and, in its external, faded sequence (which the historical point of view lucus a non lucendo calls a development), a causal process occurring in the world, in the world's space time."
"Here we must observe that the expression world history that we have chosen and that is here understood ontologically has a double meaning."
"It is for this reason that I have not included a full translation of this text."
"It is opposed to all free floating constructions and accidental findings; it is also opposed to taking over concepts only seemingly demonstrated; and likewise to pseudo questions which often are spread abroad as problems for generations."
"For the ontological concept of the subject does not characterize the seljhood of the I qua self, but the sameness and constancy of something always already objectively present."
"Here immanent means really reell immanent to the experience of knowing."
"Finally, because logos as legomenon also of nothing other than the can also mean what is addressed, as something that has become visible in its relation to something else, in its relatedness, logos acquires the meaning of relation and relationship."
"We shall understand this only if the empirical self and the body are not immediately objects, in fact only if they never Cf."
"Sometimes it weakens, as in moments of weariness, and then my 'world' of thought is impoverished and reduced to one or two obsessive ideas; sometimes, on the other hand, I am at the disposal of all my thoughts and every word spoken in front of me then stimulates questions and ideas, recasting and reorganizing the mental panorama, and presenting itself with a precise physiognomy."
"this is mythological language."
"To get used to a hat, a car or a stick is to be transplanted into them, or conversely, to incorporate them into the bulk of our own body."
"The importance we attach to the body and the contradictions of love are, therefore, related to a more general drama which arises from the metaphysical structure of my body, which is both an object for others and a subject for myself."
"But along with Dilthey and Bergson, all the directions of personalism and all tendencies toward a philosophical anthropology influenced by them share these limits."
"The patient himself neither seeks nor finds his movement, but moves his body about until the movement comes."
"I had dropped one form and not taken on the other, and was become like Mohammed's coffin in our legend. ."
"can as such, we call the be dissolved into significations."
"The opaqueness of the distinction between transcendental subjectivity and soul palpably understandable what is concretely meant here and in this way to illuminate the situation which was peculiarly opaque to that whole historical epoch, we Yet this fault does not lie in a psychological beginning."
"The Worldliness of the World Things at hand are encountered within the world."
"Attunement discloses Dasein not only in its thrownness and dependence on the world already disclosed with its being, it is itself the existential kind of being in which it is continually surrendered to the world and lets itself be concerned by it in such a way that it somehow evades its very self."
"it would, like an inarticulate cry, fail to achieve selfconsciousness."
"Kronfeld, quoted by Fischer, Zur Klinik und Psychologie des Raumlebens,."
"It is not only the fact that this willing has become total"
"In thus becoming transformed into existence, sexuality has taken upon itself so general a significance, the sexual theme has contrived to be for the subject the occasion for so many accurate and true observations in themselves, of so many rationally based decisions, and it has become so loaded with the passage of time that it is an impossible undertaking to seek, within the framework of sexuality, the explanation of the framework of existence."
"To sum up, once distinction between the a priori and the empirical, between form and content, have been done away with, the spaces peculiar to the senses become concrete 'moments' of a comprehensive configuration which is the one and only space, and the power of going to it is inseparable from that of cutting oneself off from it by the sequestration of a sense."
"This kind of examining is an empty show of knowledge."
"Indeed, many patients are able to repeat the names of the colours without being any more capable of classifying them."
"It will perhaps be objected that the organization of our body is contingent, that we can 'conceive a man without hands, feet, head' and, a fortiori a sexless man, self propagating by cutting or layering."
"guiding notion that one seek to ground an investigation of factual spirits in their historicity upon an essential knowledge of the spirit (and of the community in which spirits live) and that one proceed from these to create exact concepts and exact, unconditionally valid truths as ideal poles for all spiritual factuality?"
"The true act of counting requires of the subject that his operations as they develop and cease Benary, op."
"Similarly my acquired thoughts are not a final gain, they continually draw their sustenance from my present thought, they offer me a meaning, but I give it back to them."
"Furthennore, is it not just a house in general, but this house, determined in such and such a ay and appearing with just these determinations?"
"To what is the speaker related when he judges without perceiving the pic ture, but only representing it?"
"Initially means the way in which Dasein is manifest in th bein with one another of publicness, even if it has basically pre cis ely overcome everydayness existentielly."
"but a departure against. ."
"That is the formal meaning of the constitution of the existence of Da sein."
"How little that was the case, even in respect to nature, was demonstrated (though only in most recent times) by the weakening of the firm belief that all natural science was ultimately physics that the biological and all the concrete sciences of nature would, in the advance of their researches, resolve themselves more and more into physics."
"a as the presencing out of and into unhiddenness."
"Understanding this is one of the things that resolution discloses, in that resoluteness first gives to Dasein its authentic transparency."
"It is the power to begin something else, for we never remain suspended in nothingness."
"We shall make sense of apraxia and do justice to Liepmann's observations only if the movement to be performed can be anticipated, though not by a representation."
"Scott Moncrieff, Chatto and Windus, pp.)"
"Two things prevented this insight."
"Third impression the Event."
"However, what is historical as what is past is understood in a positive or privative effective relation to the present in the sense of what is real now and today."
"The risk that risk.c; more, which wills more than each self assertion be cause it is more willing, fashions us a safebeing in the open."
"The one summoned is also Da sein, called forth to its own most potentiality of being (its being ahead of itself. . ."
"It cannot be said of speech either that it is an 'operation of intelligence', or that it is a 'motor phenomenon': it is wholly motility and wholly intelligence."
"Furthermore, we use the expression also in a characteristic tum of phrase: I will see to it or take care that the enterprise fails."
"Thus here we would have, included under the title ego, an absolutely apodictic sphere of being rather than merely the one axiomatic proposition ego cogito or sum cogitans."
"Those who risk more are the ones who say more in the manner ofthe singer."
"The temporal interpretation of care was then confirmed by demonstrating the temporality of heedful being in the world."
"For this reason we shall here undertake the presentation of knowledge as a phenomenon."
"And supposedly the possibility of an existing being of the"
"As the disclosedness of the there, understanding always concerns the whole of being in the world."
"In the case of empiricism, the question was how the image of the world which, in itself, is inverted, can right itself for me."
"Up to now the necessity of a retrieve of the question was moti vated partly by its venerable origin but above all by the lack of a definite answer, even by the lack of any adequate formulation."
"When I focus on the remote distance and, for example, one of my fingers held near my eyes throws its image on nonsymmetrical points on my retinas, the arrangement of images on the retinas cannot be the cause of the action of focusing which will put an end to the double vision."
"exist objectively in themselves?"
"Belonging from One should not say annex."
"But obviously every agreement does not mean something like the convenentia laid down in the definition of truth."
"Thus attunement is grounded in thrownness."
"No matter how keenly we just look at the outward appearance of things constituted in one way or another, we cannot discover handiness."
"That sense data, extracted from the arbitrariness of their production, are affections from the outside and announce bodies in the external world, is not a problem for him but something taken for granted."
"But this image is universally valid whether it concerns a life which is merely practical in the usual sense or a theoretical life, .e., scientific experiencing, thinking, planning, acting, or scientific experiential data, ideas, goals of thinking, premises, true results."
"To put it more precisely, it implies a continuity of pasts which imply one another, each in itself being a past cultural present."
"For a moment it becomes an indistinct meteor like object, and then a stone again when it falls to the ground some distance away."
"Perceiving is pinning one's faith, at a stroke, in a whole future of experiences, and doing so in a present which never strictly guarantees the future; it is placing one's belief in a world."
"So if a truly exact explanation of the phenomena of the humanistic disciplines is to be possible, and accordingly a far reaching scientific praxis similar to that in the natural sphere, the humanists must not only consider the spirit as spirit but must also go back to the corporeal basis and carry out their explanations by means of exact physics and chemistry."
"With the notion of the bodily schema we find that not only is the unity of the body described in a new way, but also, through this, the unity of the senses and of the object."
"Part of the essence of power is the overpowering of it'ielf."
"Neither what only occurs uniquely nor something universal above these is its theme, but rather the possibility that has been factically existent."
"In the being of this being it is related to its eing."
"But the idea of being already lies in the idea of such a constitution of being."
"The apparently irreconcilable does not lie in the essence of the presentation."
"In such an attitude, our attention is tumed in acts of intuition and thought to things given to us, and given as a matter of course, even though they are given in different ways and in different modes of being according to the source and level of our knowledge of them."
"What appears to be disunity and uncertain, chance attempts, is an elemental restlessness, of which the one goal is to understand life philosophically and to secure for this understanding a hermeneutical foundation in terms of life itself."
"Psychology never became exact; the parallelization could not actually be carried out, and as we understand for essential reasons."
"Our inquiry related to these topics is struc tured in the following way: The possibility of experiencing the death of others, and the possibility of grasping the whole of Dasein (section ); what is outstanding, end and wholeness (section ); how the existential analysis of death is distinguished from other possible interpretations of this phenomenon (section ); preliminary sketch of the existential and ); being toward death and the ); everyday being toward death and the complete existential concept of death (section ); the existential project of an authentic being toward death (section."
"This manuscript was written in and was edited and published (beginning with the third paragraph) by Eugen Fink in the Revue internationale de philosophie, Vol."
"For precisely this reason, the general udgment pertaining to essence which we usually designate simply as the udgment of essence is independent of the distinction between perception and imagination."
"On the contrary, this holding for true, as a resolute holding oneself free for taking back, is the authentic resoluteness to retrieve itself."
"However, for this it is necessary that there are those who reach into the abyss."
"the statement can also mean that the being before us, with which we are circumspectly familiar as a hamm, has a weight, that is, the property of heaviness."
"The public sundial, in which the line of a shadow is counterposed to the course of the sun and moves along a graduated dial needs no further description."
"that will happen, get settled, sion now. ."
"The barren ego, rather, is precisely the subject of the many in their common opinion."
"of the novel conception of nature has yet to be brought to the fore."
"Rather than admit failure or retrace one's steps, the subject, caught in this existential dilemma, breaks in pieces the objective world which stands in his way and seeks symbolical satisfaction in magic acts."
"However, this action Vorgehen is at the same time the decisive and complete retreat into that truth of beings which, as absolute certainty, takes itself to be being itself."
"One need only consider the phenomena to realize that they are entirely different, united only by what can be identified in both cases, what we call the sense."
"Rather, we attend to the root meaning: to use is bruchen (to bro in Latin frui, in Ge rman fruchten, enjoy Fmcht to bear fruit, fruit."
"Angst as a mode of attunement first discloses the Angst world as However, that does not mean that the worldliness of the world is conceptualized in Angst."
"Human existence will force us to revise our usual notion of necessity and contingency, because it is the transformation of contingency into necessity by the act of taking in hand."
"In it we learn to know that union of essence and existence which we shall find again in perception generally, and which we shall then have to describe more fully."
"a place filled by the things that presence."
"The difference is intrinsic."
"The presentation is part of experience, in fact it is an essential part of experience."
"That is not supposed to mean that their structural characteristics are fused, as if Ang."
"In so far as, by adding a construction, I can bring to light the properties of a triangle, and yet find that the figure thus transformed does not cease to be the same figure as I began with, and in so far, moreover, as I am able to effect a synthesis retaining the character of necessity, this is not because my construction is upheld by a concept of the triangle in which all its properties are included, or because, starting from perceptual consciousness, I arrive at the eidos: it is because I perform the synthesis of the new property by means of my body, which immediately implants me in space, while its autonomous motion enables me, through a series of definite procedures, to arrive once more at an all inclusive view of space."
"but those who have already had the actual experience."
"Does the alleged summons come from a bad conscience or a good one?"
"For the reflection that is attempted here, it is a matter of preparing for a simple and inconspicuous step forward in thought."
"That a Dasein factically can, should, and must master its mood with knowledge and will may signify a priority of willing and cognition in certain possibilities of existing."
"Thus one can say: the genuine phenomenological psychological epoche is an attitude which is completely strange and artificial not only to the whole of natural life but also to the psychologist of the past."
"The statements made are made about something, and in what they are about they contain the discoveredness of beings."
"That all new acquisitions express an actual geometrical truth is certain a priori under the presupposition that the foundations of the deductive structure have truly been produced and objectified in original self evidence,.e., have become universally accessible acquisitions."
"A experience of objective nature."
"Being projected, in the absence of anchoring points, by the attitude of my body alone, as in Nagel's experiments specified, when the body is inert, through the demands of the spectacle alone, as in Wertheimer's experiment it normally makes its appearance where my motor intentions and my perceptual field join forces, when my actual body is at one with the virtual body required by the spectacle, and the actual spectacle with the setting La Structure du Comportement,."
"I posit the stuff of knowledge when, breaking away from the primary faith inspired by perception, I adopt a critical attitude towards it and ask 'what I am really seeing'."
"Thus false perceptions are not genuine perceptions at all."
"Time is connected with location and motion."
"Before answering these questions for which the preparation up to this point is not at all sufficient, we must inquire whether what is visible as the fore structure of understanding and qua"
"Thus being can be unconceptualized, but it is never completely uncomprehended."
"The small farmer who does not associate himself with the day labourers, still less with the town labourers, being separated from them by a whole world of customs and value judgements, nevertheless feels that he is on the same side as the journeyman when he pays them an inadequate wage, and he even feels that he has freedom something in common with the town workers when he learns that the farm owner is chairman of the board of directors of several industrial concerns."
"However, science might possibly he contrasted in other ways with mere shows of knowledge."
"The, the being, of the a, of beings in their entirety, is called the Ev, the One that ones, the union that unites."
"Being, however, is a call to man and cannot be without him."
"It is because of the disguise of ideas that the true meaning of the method, the formulae, the theories, remained unintelligible and, in the naive formation of the method, was never understood."
"It does not bar because it is in itself free of all barriers."
"But this remark is not a mere admission of defeat."
"If indeed I made myself into a worker or a bourgeois by an absolute initiative, and if in general terms nothing ever courted our freedom, history would display no structure, no event would be seen to take shape in it, and anything might emerge from anything else."
"How are we to associate the two explanations and how imagine any point at which the two determinants meet? '"
"Stambaugh (New York: Harper and Row, ,."
"Where, however, beings are not interpreted in this way, the world, too, cannot come into the picture there can be no world picture."
"We shall, therefore, have to rediscover the natural world too, and its mode of existence, which is not to be confused with that of the scientific object."
"But this power of habit is no different from the general one which we exercise over our body: if I am ordered to touch my ear or my knee, I move my hand to my ear or my knee by the shortest route, without having to think of the initial position of my hand, or that of my ear, or the path between them."
"In criticism of Diels, Burnet says Diels. ."
"Not being its self functions as a positive possibility of beings which are absorbed in a world, essentially taking care of that world."
"This must now be set forth."
"The being of the ontic condition of the possibility of discovering innerworldly beings in general, the worldliness of the world."
"What is actually essentially given to understand in the call, although not always factically understood?"
"The ontological strUcture of the being that I myself always am is centered in the self constancy of existence."
"If Rilke is a poet in a desolate time, then only his poetry will answer the question why he is a poet,"
"The objectiveness of production is found in the expression of calculating propositions and theo rems of reason that proceed from proposition to proposition."
"It risks living beings."
"She cannot bring herself to say that in common property space there stood a <U+FB02>esh and blood person who turned his eyes towards her and Minkowski, Le Probl me"
"I things at hand in the surrounding world in action."
"The fact that what is called in the call is lacking a formulation in words does not shunt this phenomenon into the indefi niteness of a mysterious voice, but only indicates that the understanding of what is called may not cling to the expectation of a communication or any such thing."
"We are always in a plenum, in being, just as a face, even in repose, even in death, is always doomed to express something (there are people whose faces, in death, bear expressions of surprise, or peace, or discretion), and just as silence is still a modality of the world of sound."
"The body becomes the highly polished machine which the ambiguous notion of behaviour nearly made us forget."
"Its modalities are always an expression of the total life of the subject, the energy with which he tends towards a future through his body and his world."
"And yet it belongs to each soul that it have its particular world consciousness in a way which is originally its own, namely, through the fact that it has empathy experiences, experiencing consciousness of others as also having a world, the same world, that is, each apperceiving it in his own apperceptions."
"Metaphysics is the space of history in which it becomes destiny for the supersensory world, ideas, God, moral law, the authority of reason, progress, the happiness of the greatest number, culture, and civilization to forfeit their constructive power and to become void."
"resistance to this new atmosphere."
"Here, then, we recognize something that truly is though only in the form of a constantly increasing approximation, beginning with what is empirically given, to the geometrical ideal shape which functions as a guiding pole."
"Concretely, however, the actual and possible empirical shapes are given, at first in empirical sense intuition, merely as forms of a matter/ of a sensible thus they are given together with what shows itself, with its own gradations, in the so called specific sensequalities: color, sound, smell, and the like."
"Again, the perception of what is known does not take place as a return with one's booty to the cabinet of consciousness after one has gone out and grasped it."
"One can no more get rid of historical materialism than of psychoanalysis by impugning 'reductionist' conceptions and causal thought in the name of a descriptive and phenomenological method, for historical materialism is no more linked to such 'causal' formulations as may have been given than is psycho analysis, and like the latter it could be expressed in another language."
"But here the players can still make known their moves to each other by telephone or correspondence, which means that they are in fact participants in the same world."
"We conclude that the tactile field has never the fullness of the visual, that the tactile object is never wholly present in each of its parts as is the case with the visual object, and in short that touching is not seeing."
"Is the element of meaning which is evident in the world produced and carried forward by the assemblage or convergence of independent facts or, on the other hand, is it merely the expression of an absolute reason?"
"Biemel's note: The following appendix was written by Eugen Fink in for the Crisis and is published with his permission."
"Such is thedominant hypothesis which has guided natural science through the centuries."
"The fact that reality is ontologically grounded in the being of Dasein cannot mean that something real can only be what it is in itself when and as long as Dasein exists."
"What is risked is vested with this traction toward the center."
"(Syst me des Beaux Arts, pp."
"As for the latter, it is my basic habit, the one which conditions all the others, and by means of which they are mutually comprehensible."
"The overzealous efforts related to doubts and examinations evade the toils which science exerts to be engaged with this acceptance."
", of life, is relatively enduring."
"This investigation is solely underway to that."
"It is defined in Zeitbewusstsein, pp."
"Have we found it at all?"
"This insight even opens access to an independent phenomenological problematic which has its funda mental significance in the framework known as formal phenomenology of consciousness."
"cisely: making nature thematic and nothing else"
"For this reason, when the entirety of beings is thought as the open of the pure attraction, the remembering reversal must be a saying that says what it has to say to a creature already secure in the entirety of beings because it has already carried out the transformation of represented visibility into the invisibil ity of the heart."
", what it must have in order to go into the possibilities of command."
"Talking about a first and a second part remains extrinsic, but not accidental, since from Plato and Aristotle to Nietz."
"An example of what is meant is that the earth originally issued from a primitive nebula from which the combination of conditions necessary to life was absent."
"There is my arm seen as sustaining familiar acts, my body as giving rise to determinate action having a field or scope known to me in advance, there are my surroundings as a collection of possible points upon which this bodily action may operate, and there is, furthermore, my arm as a mechanism of muscles and bones, as a contrivance for bending and stretching, as an articulated object, the world as a pure spectacle into which I am not absorbed, but which I contemplate and point out."
"There is no justification for picking out as crucial just one of these concordances and using it to 'explain' the act of pointing out."
"Relation is a formal definition which can be directly read off by way of formalization from every kind of context, whatever its subjectmatter or way of being.'"
"They are concerned with permanent continuance and no longer look to the the order of the while."
"The entangled everydayness of Dasein knows about the certainty of death, and yet avoids being certain."
"The person speaking is on my lips,' say patients."
"Expressed formally and existentially, without constantly naming the complete structural content, anticipatory reso luteness is the being tuward one's ownmost, eminent potentiality of being."
"The world is being emptied of what is whole heals heil los."
"Ripening is the specific being of the fruit."
"We might say with another author that normal experience involves 'circles' or 'vortices' within which each element is representative of all others and carries, as it were, 'vectors' which link it to them."
"The whole effect is altered if a piece of white paper is placed in the black box, or a piece of black paper in the white one."
"In reality, each colour, in its inmost depths, is nothing but the inner structure of the thing overtly revealed."
"The instant of natural time does not establish anything, it has to be immediately renewed, and indeed is renewed in another instant, and the sensory functions by themselves do not cause me to be in the world: when I become absorbed in my body, my eyes present me with no more than the perceptible outer covering of things and of other people, things themselves take on unreality, behaviour degenerates into the absurd, and the present itself, as in cases of false recognition, loses its consistency and takes on an air of eternity."
"Initially, Dasein is the they and for the most part it remains so."
"The presentation escapes this only when it is certain that there appears in it the entire history of the formation of consciousness."
"The six faces and twelve equal lines are not the whole significance of depth, and yet this definition has no meaning without depth."
", a genuine, science, it remains entangled in obscurities about its legitimate sense, finally succumbs to temptations to develop a rigorously methodical psychophysical or better, a psychophysicist's empirical inquiry, and then thinks that it has fulfilled its sense as a science because of the confirmed reliability of its methods."
"This not belongs to the existential meaning of thrownness."
"In the intuitively given surrounding world, by abstractively directing our view to the mere spatiotemporal shapes, we experience bodies not geometrical ideal bodies but precisely those bodies that we actually experience, with the content which is the actual content of experience."
"In the ground thesis of <U+FFFD>iet che's metaphysics, the essential unity of the will to power is identified along with the essential relation of the values art and truth."
"The revaluing becomes a reversal of the nature and manner of valuingtfhe dispensation of value requires a new principle,.e."
"On the other hand, the preface, written after the completion of the work, still speaks of the system of the experience of spirit."
"Are these insights not compelling even for us who are freed from such blind spots?"
"Psychological re<U+FB02>ection, which posits my act of perception as an event in my personal history, may well be a second order thing."
"Thus there are no right and left handed hammers, even though they are held with the hand as gloves are."
"The work of the mind exists only in act.'"
"On the contrary, time itself is taken to be one being among others."
"However one interprets this being of nature, all modes of being of innerworldly beings are onto logically founded in the worldliness of the world, and thus in the phe nomenon of being in the world."
"As the Dasein is dispersed in the they and must first fmd itself."
"Rather, the I is the subject of logical behavior, of binding together."
"according to the following schema."
"But neither does fearing first confirm something approaching us, but rather discovers it beforehand in its fearsomeness."
"All these metaphysical questions, taken broadly commonly called specifically philosophical questions surpass"
"Re<U+FB02>ection must in some way present the unre<U+FB02>ected, otherwise we should have nothing to set over against it, and it would not become a problem for us."
"Nihilism moves history in the way of a scarcely recognized fundamental process in the destiny of the Western peoples."
"Man enters into the uprising."
"That which shows itself to those who have been thus equipped, is indeed part of consciousness itself, as regards its content, and is for consciousness."
"These textbooks determined the interpretation of those of the early thinkers' 'S. original texts that still survived."
"So while our analysis of how the time of within timeness has its ource in temporality will be deferred until the next chapter,' it would be easy to put this before the discussion of the connection between historicity and temporality."
"Only this in the part published."
"I is exclusively in the 'life world, we must ask: Has the life world, through the epoche in respect to objective science, already been laid open as a universal scientific subject matter?"
"They are indicated or recommended by phenomena."
"It is the momentum which carries us beyond subjectivity, which gives us our place in the world prior to any science and any verification, through a kind of 'faith' or 'primary opinion' or which may, on the other hand, become bogged down in our private appearances."
"To say that it is always near me, always there for me, is to say that it is never really in front of me, that I cannot array it before my eyes, that it remains marginal to all my perceptions, that it is with me."
"Over all characterization of modern physicalistic rationalism."
"How arc we to learn what equipment in truth is?"
"Let us take an example."
"origin, where it is a structure within the conscious space of the first inventor's soul, to its ideal objectivity?"
"The tendency of being with which we calle distantiality is based on the fact that being with one another as such create averagemu:J it is an existential character of the they."
"The same is true of his whole school, which also, like Brentano himself, consistently refused to accept what was decisively new in my Logical Investigations (even though his demand for a psychology of intentional phenomena was put into effect here)."
"And that means that Dasein as such is guilty if our formal existential definition of guilt as being the ground of a nullity is valid."
"It wills itself as the enforcer of the absolute will to power."
"That is, we will be concerned with the exhibition and analytical partitioning of the various sorts of phenomena that are embraced by the broad title knowledge within the framework of the phenomenological reduction and self givenness."
"This understanding discloses the possibilities of its being and regulates them."
"The decisive signifiance of the correct understanding."
"It is with it that we must begin the translation."
"For the unconscious, too, as well as for consciousness, there exists the illusion of everyday, given immediacy: we are all familiar, after all, with the phenomena of sleep, of fainting, of being overtaken by obscure driving forces, creative states, and the like."
"The breath by which those who risk more risk more does not only or primarily mean the hardly noticeable (because fleeting) measure of a dif ference; rather, it signifies directly the word and the cs.'ience of language."
"But it must not be understood as a mere characteristic of interpretation, as if such aspects were discursively forced upon beings which we initially encounter, as if an initially objctively present world stuff were subjectively colored in this way."
"Further, as a variation on this, there are things which refer meaningfully in a similar way to animal existence, as opposed to things that are without signification in this sense."
"Thus one will take it in part as a gross exaggeration, in part as an absurdity, if I say in advance that the properly understood epoche, with its properly understood universality, totally changes all the notions that one could ever have of the task of psychology, and it reveals everything that was just put forward as obvious to be a naivete which necessarily and forever becomes impossible as soon as the epoche and the reduction are actually, and in their full sense, understood and carried out."
"Coming back to these beings"
"mathematic relationship of ground and consequent is sharply distinguished from that of real ground and real consequent,.e., that of natural causality."
"But does Dasein first Or From this preliminary analysis of the useful things belonging to history that are still objectively present and yet somehow past, it becomes clear that this kind of being is historical only on the basis of its belonging to the world."
"The bodies of the empirical intuitable world are such, in accord with the world structure belonging to this world a priori, that each body has abstractly speaking an extension of its own and that all these extensions are yet shapes of the one total infinite extension of the world."
"The new skeptical empiricism already sets in with Hobbes."
"First: we have not yet taken into account the fact that scientific thinking attains new results on the basis of those already attained, that the new ones serve as the foundation for still others, etc."
"The connection between essence and existence is not found in rd Meditation,."
"Thus it is a phenomenon in keeping with the sense of the positive science we call psychology."
"But it was otherwise in metaphysics,.e.,"
"An<U+FFFD>t does not know what it is about which it is anxious."
"(Here, too, proceeding from the factual, an essential form becomes recognizable through a method of variation.)"
"Only in terms of the rootedness of Dasein in temporality, do we gain insight into the existential possibility of the phenomenon that we characterized at the beginning of our analytic of Dasein as the funda mental constitution of being in the world."
"It is supposed to let men say of themselves: I am good."
"But if the shape and the background, as a whole, are not sensed, they must be sensed, one may object, in each of their points."
"It speaks, of course, in such a way that, today, this claim that is made hy Ge .rte/ assumesdominion over the absolute."
"In being But care presences out of the truth of being."
"The Phe enolop;y ojS"
"They are even an absolute mystery, not amenable to elucidation, and this through no provisional gap in our knowledge, for in that case it would fall back to the status of a mere problem, but because it is not of the order of objective thought in which there are solutions."
"The question of the wholeness of Da sein, both the existentiell question about a possible potentiality for being a whole, as well as the existential question about the constitution of being of end and wholeness, contain the task of a positive analysis of the phenomena of existence set aside up to now."
"It means down from above or from over there."
"It could not, then, be powers of association which operated in the first experiment, for if they existed they ought to operate equally in the second."
"But where the danger lies, there also grows that which saves."
"It should not at all be our task to satisfy the demands of any established discipline."
"We characterized authentically understanding the call as wanting to have a conscience."
"And what also comes under consideration here is precisely the scientists' repeated recourse, in different general manners, to the life world with its ever available intuited data; to this we can immediately add the scientists' statements, in each case simply adapted to this world, statements made purely descriptively in the same prescientific manner of judging which is proper to the occasional statements of practical, everyday life."
"Where are the guide posts to direct the projection so that being will be reached at all"
"Glances, voices, books?"
"This is how we designate the primordial occurrence of Dasein that lies in authentic resoluteness in which it hands itself down to itself, free for death, in a possibility that it inherited and yet has chosen."
"it uation at Which We Have Arrived for rpreting the Meaning of Being of Care, and the Methodical Character of the Existential Analytic in General its anticipatory resoluteness, Dasein has been made phenomenally vis ible with regard to its possible authenticity and totality."
"The tmth panzgraph continues this reflection and shows that Hegel is not glossing over or eliminating the contradiction in the essence of the presentation by means of logical arguments."
"What Hegel calls natural consciousness is by no means the same as sen sory consciousness."
"The totality of what is objctively present becomes thematic."
"The most obvious ambiguity of the term history has often been noted, and it is by no means approximate."
"It must be recalled again that the ancient skepticism begun by Protagoras and Gorgias calls into question and denies episteme,.e., scientific knowledge of what is in itself, but that it does not go beyond such agnosticism, beyond the denial of the rational substructions of a philosophy which, with its supposed truths in themselves, assumes a rational in itself and believes itself capable of attaining it."
"But now it has not only been enriched by the samples of significant insights attained along the way; it has also attained a self under A standing in principle which procures for these insights and for the epoche itself their ultimate meaning and value."
"But there are handy things, after all, only on the basis of what is objec tively present."
"First: by idealizing the world of bodies in respect to what has spatiotemporal shape in this world, it created ideal objects."
"Might this not also point to essential necessities?"
"It can no longer be a question of describing the world of living experience which it carries within itself like some opaque datum, it has to be constituted."
", what has been left over, of the world histor ical that has been, the remnan ts, and the information about them that is objectively present."
"Here the past has no particular priority."
"This name covers, here, the whole range of discovery, examination, verification, evaluation, preservation, and interpretation."
"Erde, ist cs nicht dies, was du willst: unsichtbar in unserstchn?"
"We see, namely, that as an abstention from performing validity, carried out in individual steps, it cannot lead to the goal."
"In what way can that departs against the open take place?"
"During sleep, on the other hand, I hold the world present to me only in order to keep it at a distance, and I revert to the subjective sources of my existence."
"There is naturally no question of a relationship of container to content, since this relationship exists only between objects, nor even a relationship of logical inclusion, like the one existing between the individual and the class, since space is anterior to its By this we understand either that of a Kantian like."
"Not only is the call meant for him who is summoned without regard to his person, the caller, too, remains in a striking indefiniteness."
"When we say that red increases the compass of our reactions, we are not to be understood as having in mind two distinct facts, a sensation of redness and motor reactions we must be understood as meaning that red, by its texture as followed and adhered to by our gaze, is already the amplification of our motor being."
"space try to express myself, I crystallize an indefinite collection of motives within an act of consciousness, I revert to the implicit, that is, to the equivocal and to the world's free play."
"We were once concern with gaining an understanding of the relationships between consciousness and nature, between the inner and the outer."
"Scientific proof will not take us far enough."
"The recognition of phenomena, then, implies a theory of re<U+FB02>ection and a new cogito."
"However, this violence comes from consciousness itself."
"Instead of entrusted, our older and richer language would say plighted or betrothed loved, held dear."
"The propositions are posited without grounds."
"its turn taken as an object of analysis and it is now a matter of awakening the thoughts which constitute other people, myself as individual subject and the world as a pole of my perception."
"The seer, ns, is the Jalv Jevos, the madman."
"Le temps est le sens de la vie (sens: comme on dit le sens d'un cours d'eau, le sens d'une phrase, le sens d'une toffe, le sens de l'odorat)."
"Because they have been admitted into the open, the pure attraction is never the objective other of themselves."
"This tree here, that he thereby effects the straightforward certainty that belongs to the essence of perceiving,.e."
"It means: laying, laying down a sacred offering."
"Neither the conservative nor the proletarian is conscious of being engaged in merely an economic struggle, and they always bring a human significance to their action."
"However, since in the context of problems in this inquiry the analysis of conscience is only subservient to the ontological, fundamental question, the characterization of the connection between the existential interpretation of conscience and the vulgar interpretation of conscience will have to be content with a reference to the essential problems."
"Nor are the intention to move the eye and the landscape's passivity in relation to this impulse premises or reasons for the illusion."
"The tacit cogito is a cogito only when it has found expression for itself."
"Earlier we showed how the understanding of being that prevails initially and for the most part conceives being in the sense of objective presence and thus covers ov the primordial phenomenon of truth."
"At this point we will not conduct an investigation in order to find out whether these statements, insofar as they claim to be subjectively true, also have their objectivity."
"Behind the spoken cogito, the one which is converted into discourse and into essential truth, there lies a tacit cogito, myself experienced by myself."
"Also, it represents a link between that work and themes in Formal und transzendentale Logik."
"Our previous interpretation was limited to an analysis of indifferent or inauthentic existence, starting out with average everydayness."
"Time exists for me because I have a present."
"(in the surmounting) of dis order."
"The English wield is related to it but is transitive."
"How is this fleeting saying motivated?"
"Yet both these modes of appearance are to be found in psychologists' experiments, where, moreover, they are often confused."
"Thus the growing acquisition of obviously valuable empirical facts took on the appearance of having a meaning which could be understood philosophically."
"To this end it is necessary that, before the translating, our thinking is translated iibn:"
"But it is equally true that this synthesis must always be undertaken afresh, and that any supposition that it can be anywhere brought to completion involves the negation of time."
"And conversely, with the normal subject the sequence of numbers as a kinetic melody practically devoid of genuinely numerical meaning is most often substituted for the concept of number."
"No line of knowledge, no single truth may be absolutized and isolated."
"As inauthentic having been, forgot tenness is thus related to its own thrown being."
"It does indeed move forward with the instant and, as it were, in <U+FB02>ashes, but we are then left to lay hands on it, and it is through expression that we make it our own."
"Gelb, Farbenkonstanz,."
"Can we proceed from the results attained that the being of Dasein is care to the question of the primordial unity of this structural totality?"
"The question of the meaning of being is the most universal and the emptiest."
"Busily losing himself in what is taken care of, the irresolute person loses his time in them, too."
"To discover in this way is the kind of being of truth."
"Correctly translated, in the original sense, that means nothing other than universal science, science of the universe, of the all encompassing unity of all that is."
"On the one hand, science, in order to be carried out, needs the criterion; on the other hand, the criterion can only be given in the course of carrying it out, asswning, that is, that absolute knowledge is not able to adopt a criterion from just anywhere."
"Alain quotes Montaigne's words on madmen 'who believe they see what they do not really see'."
"I can accomplish the cogito and have assurance of genuinely willing, loving or believing, provided that in the first place I actually do will, love or believe, and thus accomplish my own existence."
"The deliberation that brings near must in the scheme of making present adapt itself to the kind of being of what is to be brought near."
"One must keep completely away from the petty details, for example, how often Plato was is Magna Graecia or Syracuse."
"But the patient does not make the same use as the normal subject of these materials."
"The field, for example, along which we walk outside shows itself as belonging to such and such a person who keeps it in good order, the book which we use is bought at such and such a place, given by such and such a person, and so on."
"As the condition of the possi bility of the factical necessity of the clock, temporality is at the same time the condition for its discoverability."
"knowledge implies a present consciousness referring back to such earlier groundings and having the real capacity to reestablish the earlier grounding, to trace the present conviction of its legitimacy back to its origin, and to justify it anew."
"Let us imagine a white patch on a homogeneous background."
"we have no right to level all experiences down to a single world, all modalities of existence down to a single consciousness."
"Schneider can no longer put himself into a sexual situation any more than generally he occupies an affective or an ideological one."
"The making present that inter that understands and speaks."
"every humanism had to remain something unsuited to Greece, so a me dieval world view was an impossibility; and a Catholic world view is an absurdity."
"Only in the widest compass of the whole is the holy able to appear."
"If time has been made public with the dis closedness of world, if it has always already been taken care of with the discoveredness of innerworldly beings belonging to the disclosedness of world since Dasein calculates time reckoning with itself, then the mode toward time lies in of behavior in which one orients oneself explicitly the use of the clock."
"No one is saved and no one is totally lost."
"according to necessity; for they pay one another punishment and penalty for their injustice."
"How is that possible?"
"and, when I say that I am seeing something at a distance, I mean that the height of the triangle is determined by its relations to these given sizes."
"The charac Dasein itself is this being."
"In their vague indeterminateness they could not incite interest."
"One is that the interests of the new attitude are meant to serve the natural interests of life or, what is in essence the same thing, natural praxis."
"Da sein, Disclosedness, and Truth"
"This being toward possibilities that understands is itself a potentiality for being because of the way these disclosed possibilities come back to Da sein."
"Only if that to which this comes back is already ecstatically open, can what is threatening be awaited back to the being that I am, and affect of only so can Dasein be threatened."
"In the nearest being with one another, several people can say now together, and each can date the now in a different way: now that this or that happens."
"Highly successful accomplishments, daily growing more numerous, at least in a large number of new sciences, were at hand."
"Everyone has the sense of philosophy's end, to whose realization his life is devoted; everyone has certain formulae, expressed in definitions; but only secondary thinkers, who in truth should not be called philosophers, are consoled by their definitions, beating to death with their word concepts the problematic telos of philosophizing."
"to the psychologist, all this is accessible thematically."
"In what the senses of sight, hearing, and touch bring to us, in the sensations of color, sound, roughness, and hardness, things move us bodily, in a quite literal sense."
"This occurs in the form of a new sort of praxis, that of the universal critique of all life and all life goals, all cultural products and systems that have already arisen out of the life of man; and thus it also becomes a critique of mankind itself and of the values which guide it explicitly or implicitly."
"In fact, if we do not count the negativistic, skeptical philosophy of a Hume, the Kantian system is the first attempt, and one carried out with impressive scientific seriousness, at a truly universal transcendental philosophy meant to be a rigorous science in a sense of scientific rigor which has only now been discovered and which is the only genuine sense."
"converge on the object, and because it throws non symmetrical images on our two retinas?"
"When I perceive a thing, a fireplace for example, it is not the concordance of its various aspects which leads me to believe in the existence of the fireplace as the geometrized projection and collective significance of all these perspectives."
"It is given as an existing entity, as a this here."
"other truths also exist does not know what he is talking about."
"However, the love that prevails in such a world is not the effecting effective kend wirksame principle of that which is taking place now."
"As long as we have not reached this, the retrieve of the temporal analysis of Dasein will remain incomplete and marred by lack of clarity, not to speak extensively of the factual dif ficulties."
"Through this liberation the essence of freedom being bound to something that binds is posited anew."
"So we are generally accustomed to read the text."
"This lostness can be sum moned by one's own Da sein, the summons can be understood in the mode of resoluteness."
"Fundamentally, presence as such is not distinguished from what is present."
"Man is no longer the <U+FFFD>hpov in the sense of restraining his apprehension to the sphere of the unconceal ment of what presences at his time the sphere toward which man then presences."
"But truth means discoveredness of beings."
"But one thing more is important for our clarification."
"If we use it at times in the first meaning, we shall put it in quotation marks."
"Its existential and temporal constitution is distinguished by the fact that in falling prey, and thus also in the bringing near which is founded in making present, the forgetting that awaits pursues the present."
"In straightforward world experience we find human beings intentionally related to certain things animals, houses, fields, etc."
"However, being means presence."
"But something important must be added here to fill out our remarks."
"of wanting to view men and animals seriously as double realities, as combinations of two different sorts of realities which are to be equated in the sense of their reality, and accordingly the desire to investigate souls also through the method of the science of bodies,.e., souls as existing within natural causality, in space time, like bodies this gave rise to the supposed obviousness of a method to be formed as an analogue to natural science."
"Idealism (like objective thought) bypasses true intentionality, which is at its object rather than positing freedom it."
"But it is clear that the essence is here not the end, but a means, that our effective involvement in the world is precisely what has to be understood and made amenable to conceptualization, for it is what polarizes all our conceptual particularizations."
"The holding for true that belongs to resoluteness tends, in accordance with its meaning, toward itself free for the constantly keeping itself free, that is, to keep whole potentiality of being of Da sein."
"The distinction between the perceptual life and the concept, between passivity and spontaneity is no longer abolished by analytical re<U+FB02>ection, since we are no longer forced by the atomism of sensation to look to some connecting activity for our principle of all co ordination."
"But the absoluteness of this absolute is neither doubted, nor questioned, nor even just cited in its essence."
"Disclosedness is an essential kind of being of Da sein."
"I.e., the step of presenting this still inadequate view."
"It seeks novelty only to leap from it again to another nov elty."
"The second essential trait which belongs to it we shall attempt to make visible by starting, in the same manner as before, from the foreground of the work."
"Behind the rubric ontology, the history of being conceals itself from us."
"The extent of this dependence determines the freedom from irrelevant influences."
"The more they risk is as slight as a breath that remains fleeting and imperceptible."
"Does he not already take it for granted that sensibility points to a realm of what is in itself, but that it can deceive us; and that there must be a rational way of resolving this deception and of knowing what is in itself with mathematical rationality?"
"I try to grasp the word rot (red) in its living expression; but at first it is no more than peripheral for me, no more than a sign along with the knowledge of its meaning."
"Experience anticipates a philosophy and philosophy is merely an elucidated experience."
"This giving space, which we call making room, frees things at hand for their spatiality."
"All praxis, with its projects Vorhaben involves inductions; it is just that ordinary inductive knowledge (predictions), even if expressly formulated and verified, is artless compared to the artful methodical inductions which can be carried to infinity through the method of Galilean physics with its great productivity."
"One intellectualist re<U+FB02>ection thematizes the object and consciousness, and, to use a Kantian expression, it 'leads them to the concept'."
"This interpretation would come closer to the phenomenal content if it stated that Dasein is the being of this between."
"For the living subject his own body might well be different from all external objects; the fact remains that for the unsituated thought of the psychologist the experience of the living subject became itself an object and, far from requiring a fresh definition of being, took its place in universal being."
"Consciousness is not only this differentiation which at the same time is not a differentiation; it is also, thereby, a comparison of the object with its objectivity and of knowl edge with its knownness."
"that it has to be; definition."
"If I hold my pen near my eyes so that it shuts out almost the whole scene before me, its real size remains small, because the pen which hides everything is also a pen seen at close quarters, and because this condition, which is always conveyed to me in my perception, reduces the appearance once more to modest proportions."
"And only because Da sein, in understanding is its there, can it go astray and fail to recognize itself."
"The fact remains that this existence is the act of taking up and making explicit a sexual situation, and that in this way it has always at least a double sense."
"What we intend to establish, then, is a phenomenology, a phenomenology of knowledge as the theory of the essence of pure phenomena of knowing."
"If he is very powerful, he can go very far in recognizing and letting alone the individual who is ."
"But, robbed of its refuge and this subterfuge by the summons, the self is brought to itself by the call."
"But making up for not choosing sig choosing to make this choice deciding for a potentiality of being, plished by nifies and making this decision from one's own self."
"Even ending in the sense of disappearing can still be modified according to the kind of being of the being."
"But if the hard bodies, those that do not give way, changed their location with the same speed as the hand approaching the bodies, nothing would ever be touched."
"It is essential to the alleged fixed points underlying motion that they should not be posited in present knowledge and that they should always be 'already there'."
"every objectivity, insofar as it is seen, imagined, or thought in such and such a way, a givenness, even an evident givenness?"
"The disclosedness of the there dis."
"The making pre sent that awaits and retains interprets a during with a span, only because in so doing it is disclosed to along itself as being ecstatically stretched in historical temporality, even though it does not know itself as this."
"As thrown, the project is not only determined by the nullity of being the ground but is tself as project essentially null."
"Any genuine method is grounded in the appropriate preview of the fundamental constitution of the object or area of objects to be disclosed."
"We must now keep the terminological use of this expression at a distance from all of the meanings of future, past, and present initially urging themselves upon us from the vulgar concept of time."
"Angst reveals in Dasein its being toward its ownmost potentiality of beingfree for the freedom of choosing and grasping itself."
"Blind toward possibilities, it is incapable of retrieving what has been, but only retains what is and receives real"
"But the question arises again: How does the latter, in its ideality, thereby become objective?"
"According to Scheler, the person can never be thought as a thing or a substance."
"In short, the system of retentions collects into itself at each instant what was, an instant earlier, the system of protentions."
"The other breath no longer solicits for this or that objective thing; it is a breath for nothing."
"an with all its accomplishments and accomplished acquisitions, including the world as existing and being such."
"Are we wrong to discern a whole philosophy implicit in the criticism of the 'constancy hypothesis'?"
"The term 'world' here is not a manner of speaking: it means that the 'mental' or cultural life borrows its structures from natural life and that the thinking subject must have its basis in the subject incarnate."
"From the fact that the being of space itself cannot be conceived as the kind of being of extensa, res it follows neither that it must be ontologically determined as phenomenon of this res it would not be distinguished from that res in res its being nor that the being of space can be equated with that of the cogitans and be conceived as something merely subjective, quite apart from the questionability of the being of this subject."
", I shall nevertheless not cease to see, if it is only the blackness before my eyes, or to hear, if only silence, and in the same way I can 'bracket' my opinions or the beliefs I have acquired, but,"
"Nevertheless my act of representation, unlike the experiences represented, is actually present to me; the former is perceived, the latter are merely represented."
"Time in its passage does not carry away with it these impossible projects; it does not close up on traumatic experience; the subject remains open to the same impossible future, if not in his explicit thoughts, at any rate in his actual being."
"More generally, she tends to break with life itself: her inability to swallow food arises from the fact that swallowing symbolizes the movement of existence which carries events and assimilates them; the patient is unable, literally, to 'swallow' the prohibition which has been imposed upon her."
"If idealism emphasizes the fact that being and reality are only in consciousness, this expresses the understanding that being cann ot be explained by beings."
"If that were the case, the true would be acknowledging the suzerainty of the untrue."
"Philosophy battles with this 'also'."
"But this numbness not only takes worldly possibilities, but at the authentic potentiality of being."
"One may try to do away with these contradictions by making a distinction between Husserl's and Heidegger's phenomenologies; yet the whole of Sein und Zeit springs from an indication given by Husserl and amounts to no more than an explicit account of the 'nat rlicher Weltbegriff or the 'Lebenswelt' which Husserl, towards the end of his life, identified as the central theme of phenomenology, with the result that the contradiction reappears in Husserl's own philosophy."
"This definition of the thing is derived from an interpretation of the equipmentality of equipment."
"Someone is coming out, and I do not yet know whether I can recognize him as the person I am waiting for."
"For how could the consequence ever attack the ground on which it stands?"
"the species, the nuances as such?"
"Every such exact consideration presupposed the possibility of stipulating an equality which excluded the greater and the smaller and of stipulating units of magnitude which were strictly substitutable for one another, were identical as magnitudes,.e., which stood under an identical concept or essence of magnitude."
"In modem metaphysics, the sphere of the invisible inward is defined as the realm of the presence of calculated objects."
"And what is less dubious than the givenness of the I?"
"Has he lost his way, like a child?"
"On the one hand, the neglect of the question of being in general, and in connection with this, the lack of a thematic ontology of Dasein in Kantian terms, the lack of a preliminary ontological analytic of the subjectivity of the subject."
"Exposition of the sense of the Cartesian epoche."
", we use the word, Greek designates neither an ethnic nor national, neither a cultural nor an anthropological characteristic."
"Poetry is here thought in such a broad sense, and at the same time in such an intimate and essential unity with language and the word, that it must remain open whether art, in all its modes from architecture to poesy, exhausts the nature of poetry."
"said: 'The outline and the colour are no longer distinct; in proportion as one paints, one outlines, and the more the colour is harmonized, the more definite the outline becomes. ."
"the total world view of modern man, in the second half of the nineteenth century, let itself be determined by the positive sciences and be blinded by the prosperity they produced, meant an indifferent turning away from the questions which are decisive for a genuine humanity."
"Let it merely be noted for the moment that starting with this central phenomenon the relationships between the 'psychic' and the 'physiological' become conceivable."
"Should we not simply say that it is transcended and submerged in the more general drama of existence?"
"This on the psychic side."
"Things that stay awhile stay KaTa xpewv."
"This average and vague understanding of being is a fact."
"Phenomenology is accessible only through a phenomenological method."
"In the same way, abstract movement is endangered in so far as it presupposes awareness of an objective, is borne on by that awareness, and is movement for itself."
"Far from its being the case that the thing is reducible to constant relationships, it is in the self evidence of the thing that this constancy of relationships has its basis."
"that is, as a harmless subjectoccurring somewhere, endowed with personal consciousness?"
"The pure quale would be The original French word is 'le sentir' (Translator's note)."
"This reservation, too, arises from a view of the phe nomenon which is genuine within certain limi ts."
"It is a question of recognizing consciousness itself as a project of the world, meant for a world which it neither embraces nor possesses, but towards which it is perpetually directed and the world as this pre objective individual whose imperious unity decrees what knowledge shall take as its goal."
"But in fact, it is only intellectualist, abstract re<U+FB02>ection which is incompatible with misconceived 'facts'."
"Nothing, however, is only, in fa ., the true result, when taken as the nothing of what it comes from; it is thus itself a determinate nothing, and has a content."
"Phenomenal consciousness is in it itself what is to be measured and"
"rtain on which the play of beings enacts itself."
"But here it is always merely nature which is in view, and an idea of reality is thereby presupposed for the world, whose correlate is the idea of a truth in itself, the idea of a mathematically constructible truth, even though it is given only in any number of approximations."
"The consequence is therefore clear."
"Thus experience of one's own body runs counter to the re<U+FB02>ective procedure which detaches subject and object from each other, and which gives us only the thought about the body, or the body as an idea, and not the experience of the body or the body in reality."
"Thus in whatever way we may be conscious of the world as universal horizon, as coherent universe of existing objects, we, each I the man and all of us together, belong to the world as living with one another in the world; and the world is our world, valid for our consciousness as existing precisely through this living together."
"the synthesis of one's own body its text were not preserved down to the last detail."
"What is peculiar to the latter is the fact that questioning first becomes lucid in advance with regard to all the above named constitutive characteristics of the question."
"This risk is based in the will, which, since Leibniz, has shown itselfmore clearly as the being of beings that is revealed in metaphysics."
"Here and over there are possible only in a there, that is, when there is a being which has disclosed spatiality as the being of the there."
"For either this was psychology in the positive sphere and spoke of human beings as the functioning subjects, in which case it presupposed the ground of the world and moved in a circle; or it actually put this ground in question, as did Hume who in this respect was much more radical than Kant in which case it plunges us into a paradoxical solipsism and skepticism and, in any case, into a horrid situation where the being of the world is incomprehensible."
"Kai TiaJv is neither linguistically demanded nor, more importantly, justified by the matter itself."
"Mathematical method constructs, out of intuitive representation, ideal objects and teaches how to deal with them operatively and systematically."
"Ambiguity When in everyday being with one another, we encounter things that are accessible to everybody and about which everybody can say every thing, we can soon no longer decide what is disclosed in genuine understanding and what is not."
"Having been arises from the future in such a way that th future that has been (or better, is in the process of having been) releases the present from itself."
"In order to revive perceptual experience buried under its own results, it would not have been enough to present descriptions of them which might possibly not have been understood, we had to establish by philosophical references and anticipations the point of view from which they might appear true."
"Likewise it makes no sense, with respect the essence of knowledge and fundamental stmcture of knowledge, to doubt what its sense is while one has the relevant exemplary phenomena and the relevant species given right before one eyes in a reflection that involves only acts pure seeing and ideating within the sphere of the phenomenological reduction."
"What is near lies in that which is in the circle of an average reach, grasp, and look."
"These are: under standing, attunement, entanglement, and discourse."
"belief in the thing and the world must entail the presumption of a completed synthesis and yet this completion is made impossible by the very nature of the perspectives which have to be inter related, since each one of them, by virtue of its horizons, refers to other perspectives, and so on indefinitely."
"there belongs also a past I of that present, whereas the actual, original I is that of immediate presence; to this presence, recollection belongs as a present experience, in addition to what appears as the present sphere of facts."
"There is a temporal style of the world, and time remains the same because the past is a former future and a recent present, the present an impending past and a recent future, the future a present and even a past to come; because, that is, each dimension of time is treated or aimed at as something other than itself and because, finally, there is at the core of time a gaze, or, as Heidegger puts it, an Augen blick, someone through whom the word as can have a meaning."
"Do we already have thereby, the subject matter for statements that are generally valid scientifically, statements about facts that are to be established scientifically?"
"How is this mode of temporalizing of temporality to be interpreted?"
"If the expressions ahead of and already had this temporal meaning, which th ey can also have, then we would be saying about the temporality of care that it is something that is earlier and later, not yet and no longer at the same time."
"My experiences of the world are integrated into one single world as the double image merges into the one thing, when my finger stops pressing upon my eyeball."
"(Translator's note)."
"Greek ontology thus uprooted becomes a fixed body of doctrine in the Middle Ages."
"There are 'surface tactile phenomena' (Ober<U+FB02> chentastungen) in which a two dimensional tactile object is presented to the touch and more or less firmly resists penetration, three dimensional tactile environments, comparable to areas of colour, for example a <U+FB02>ow of air or water which we allow to run over our hand and there is also tactile transparency"
"But we do not think that, because of this, there are many worlds."
"This may well be a topic for philosophical thinking, but it points to questions which cannot yet be grasped here and do not belong to the sphere of questions we must now deal with."
"The imaginary arm is, then, like repressed experience, a former present which cannot decide to recede into the past."
"what horizons of problems, leading into new dimensions, have not been dealt with adequately horizons which can be opened up only through a reflection on this life world and man as its subject can be shown only when we are much further advanced in the elucidation of the historical development according to its innermost moving forces."
"But nomen substantiae non convenit Deo et illis univoce, ut dici solet in Scholis, hoc est. ."
"Since natural time remains at the centre of my history, I see myself surrounded by it."
"What has become of them if now, in the psychologist's epoche, the taking of a position on any such positing is to be excluded?"
"It would be contradictory to asse both that the world is constituted by me and that, out of this constitutive operation, I can grasp no more than the outline and the essential structures; I must see the existing world appear at the end of the constituting process, and not only the world as an idea, otherwise I shall have no more than an abstract construction, and not a concrete consciousness, of the world."
"If it is permanent, the permanence is absolute and is the ground for the relative permanence of disappearing objects, Husserl, Ideen."
"It is because it is a preobjective view that being in the world can be distinguished from every third person process, from every modality of the res extensa, as from every cogitatio, from every first person form of knowledge and that it can effect the union of the 'psychic' and the 'physiological'."
"To experience a structure is not to receive it into oneself passively: it is to live it, to take it up, assume it and discover its immanent significance."
"And, like intellectualism itself, it has to be transferred to the level of re<U+FB02>ection, where the philosopher is no longer trying to explain perception, but to coincide with and understand the perceptual process."
"Among these totalities the so called definite manifolds are distinctive."
"The now is not pregnant with the not yet now, but rather the present arises from the future in the primordial, ecstatic unity of the temporalizing of tem porality."
"The oblivion of being is oblivion to the difference between being and the being."
"I. by the things thems elves to question further: auto to pragma hiidopoiesen autois kai sunenagka.se zetein."
"Dasein does not exist as the sum of the momentary realities of experiences that succeed each other and disappear."
"The objective result of both faculties is pure mathematics as theory."
"But doesn 't all science lead to establishing an objectivity existing in itself, thus to what is transcendent?"
"This rough sketch will be filled in and better understood if we pursue the historical origin of philosophical and scientific humanity and, proceeding from there, clarify the sense of Europe and its new sort of historicity which distinguishes itself through the above mentioned type of development from history in general."
"is itself a way of being in the world, and must not be interpreted as a procedure by which a subjectgathers repre sentations about something for itself which then remain tored up inside as thus appropriated, and in reference to which the question can arise at times of how they correspond with reality."
"In contrast to Hegel's language, we use the word being both for what Hegel (with Kant) calls objectiveness Objektivitiit) and Gegenstiindlichkeit and objectivity for what he represents as the truly real and the reality of spirit."
"He finds himself in a world which surrounds him, which appears now in one way, now in another, motivates him now in one way, now in another, into which he gazes and listens; generally speaking, he is practically determined in different ways by this world, and through his praxis he is always giving it a new face."
"In the one case we actively busy ourselves with knowledge as an instrument, in the other we passively suffer knowledge as the medium through which the light of truth is supposed to reach us."
"Phenomenological truth (disclosedness of being) is veritas tran scendentalis."
"And because Dasein is spatial in the way described, space shows itself as a priori."
"But then, the behaviour of another, and even his words, are not that other."
"This text appears in the German edition as Beilage pp."
"Existing, it understands itself in such a way that this understanding does not just grasp something, but constitutes the exis .ul of its factical potentiality of being."
"Rather, it is to say that knowledge contains within itself a certain problem, namely, how it is possible for it to achieve what we usually take it to achieve: contact with objectivity."
"Of course, this art of theo has the peculiar property that, since it has developed out of philosophy (though out of an imperfect one), it has a meaning belonging to all its artful products, a meaning which comes from that philosophy but is concealed, such that it cannot be elicited by inquiring into mere methodical technique and its history but can be aroused only by the true philosopher and can be unfolded in its genuine depths only by the transcendental philosopher."
"The unpresently present is the absent."
"Rather, the unconcealment of beings (bein!f) puts us into such an essence that all our representing remains set into, and in accordance with, unconcealmcnt."
"Thus, in truth, there begins with Descartes a completely new manner of philosophizing which seeks its ultimate foundations in the subjective."
"And psychology does not appear to offer any special problems, since the one who is knowing directly experiences his own mental life and that of others by way of analogy to it in empathy."
"How the essential relation of the truth of beings as such to the man's essence is in fact to be thought within metaphysics and in accordance with the essence of metaphysics still remains hidden from our thinking."
"The expression has nothing to do with distress, melancholy, or the cares of life which can be found ontically in every Da sein."
"G The translations ofNietzsche and Diels arise from different impulses and intentions."
"By using words as the painter uses colours and the musician notes, we are trying to constitute, out of a spectacle or an emotion, or even an abstract idea, a kind of equivalent or specie soluble in the mind."
"If we think of it as absent, can a mathematics, a logic of nature, ever have the possibility of knowing objects through mere sensedata?"
"The new one is constructed in a rigorous correspondence to the old."
"I lowever, being is the ground of beings."
"Now the understanding is being prepared for a still more primordial temporalization of temporality."
"To be sure, he too did not clarify the obscurity of these categorial connections."
"Is a specific attunement, a special understanding, discourse, and interpretation appropriate to the they?"
"It has already become clear to us that an exact psychology, as an analogue to physics (i.e., the dualistic parallelism of realities, of methods, and of sciences), is an absurdity."
"Discourse is existential language because the beings whose disclosedness it significantly articulates have the kind of being of being in the world which is thrown and reliant upon the world."
"This is what happens in the case of a couple where there is more love felt on one side than on the other: one throws himself, and his whole life, into his love, the other remains free, finding in this love a merely contingent manner of living."
"The reckoning is prior to such instruments, and first makes possi ble something like the use of clocks."
"The fact, for example, that touch cannot simultaneously cover more than a small amount of space that of the body and its instruments does not affect merely the presentation of tactile space, but also changes its significance."
"In hankering, being in the world already among."
"The second error, like the first, springs from our prejudice about the world."
"Sight was conceived with regard to the basic kind of disclosing characteristic of Da sein, understanding in the sense of the genuine appropriation of beings to which Dasein can be related in accordance with its essential possibilities of being."
"As we pointed out at the beginning, we have to rediscover beneath depth as a relation between things or even between planes, which is objectified depth detached from experience and transformed into breadth, a primordial depth, which confers upon the other its significance, and which is the thickness of a medium devoid of any thing."
"But chance happenings offset each other, and facts in their multiplicity coalesce and show up a certain way of taking a stand in relation to the human situation, reveal in fact an event which has its definite outline and about which we can talk."
"The being which is concerned in its being about its being is related to its being as its truest possibility."
"In the matter of living appearance, my visual body includes a large gap at the level of the head, but biology was there ready to fill that gap, to explain it through the structure of the eyes, to instruct me in what the body really is, showing that I have a retina and a brain like other men and like the corpses which I dissect, and that, in short, the surgeon's instrument could infallibly bring to light in this indeterminate zone of my head the exact replica of plates illustrating the human anatomy."
"Third edition, Truth is the self illuminating being of beings."
"Temporality and Everydayness."
"We arc capable, in general, of noticing of anything present that such a thing is; but as soon as this is noted it falls, just as quickly, into the oblivion of the commonplace."
"In the Moment, authentic existence is indifferent to both of these alternatives."
"For the essence of the a is doubly determined."
"However, alienation cannot mean that Dasein is factically torn away from itself."
"The latter, as a theory of the accomplishments necessarily carried out within subjectivity, and thus as a theory of the possibility and scope of objective knowledge, reveals the naivet of the supposed rational philosophy of nature in itself."
"The finitude of a perception which gives me, as Spinoza expressed it, 'consequences without premises', the inherence of consciousness in a point of view, these things amount to my ignorance of myself, to my negative power of not re<U+FB02>ecting."
"spiritum dedisti, in morte spiritum, tuque Tellus, quia dedisti corpus, corpus recipito, Cura enim quia prima finxit, teneat quamdiu vixerit."
"And yet, I am capable of omitting this distinction and of falling into illusion."
"lies the ecstatic nature of beings."
"In geometrical and natural scientific mathematization, in the open infinity of possible experiences, we measure the life world the world constantly given to us as actual in our concrete world life for a well fitting garb of ideas, that of the so called objectively scientific truths."
"There is no outstripping of sexuality any more than there is any sexuality enclosed within itself."
"But world time is also more subjective than any possible subject since it first makes possible the being of the factical existing self, that being which, as is now well understood, is the meaning of care."
"The inter pretation of within timeness gives us a more primordial insight into the essence of public time and at the same time makes it possible to define its being."
"A thing is, therefore, not actually given in perception, it is internally taken up by us, reconstituted and experienced by us in so far as it is bound up with a world, the basic structures of which we carry with us, and of which it is merely one of many possible concrete forms."
"Thus various possibilities of fear result."
"The point rebels against all the other points."
"This true being is not something he always already has, with the self evidence of the"
"Moreover, in nature where time is now, no 'stable' difference between those dimensions (past and future) ever comes about."
"How an image corresponds to a thing that we believe we understand."
"This circle of understanding is not a circle in which any random kind of knowledge operates, but it is rather the expression of the existentialfore structure of Dasein itself."
"the relationships introduced by lighting, Gelb, Farbenkonstanz,."
"However I might perceive, imagine, judge, infer whether these acts are attended by certainty or uncertainty, whether they actually have objects or not it remains absolutely clear and certain that with respect to perception I am perceiving this or that, that with respect to judgment, I am jUdging this or that, etc."
"Not only do we lack the cement, even the chema according to whi ch"
"The theory of the body schema is, implicitly, a theory of perception."
"In the former case, we study the essence of a work of art in its pure generality; in the latter case, the actual content of the actually given artwork, what here comes to the same thing as the knowing of the determinant object (as truly existing, according to its true determinations), say a symphony of Beethoven's."
"Persons are motivated only by what they are conscious of and in virtue of the way in which this object of consciousness exists for them in their consciousness of it, in virtue of its sense how it is valid or not valid for them, etc."
"In the manuscript transcendent."
"To dedicate means to consecrate heiligen in the sense that, in the workly construction, the holy is opened Heilige up as the holy and the god is called forth into the openness of its presence."
"But what is the path to the equipmentality of equipment?"
"And they become such material only by being under stood from the outset with regard to their innerworldliness."
"itself is grounded in a making pre"
"Hegel starts that sentence which expresses the essence of experience with the words: This dialectical movement."
"The power possessed by language of bringing the thing expressed into existence, of opening up to thought new ways, new dimensions and new landscapes, is, in the last analysis, as obscure for the adult as for the child."
"What is the meaning of this mathematization of nature?"
"The <U+FB02>owers are self evidently a love bouquet, and yet it is impossible to say what in them signifies love, and that is even the reason why Mme de Mortsauf can accept them without breaking her vows."
"From this, Christian theological anthropology, taking over the ancient definition, gets an interpretation of the being we call human being."
"Here the being of the Cartesian meditation on doubt provides us with a beginning: the cogitatio, of experience as it occurs and is simply being reflected upon, cannot the be doubted; the intuitive, direct apprehension and possession of cogitatio is itself a knowing, the cogitationes are the first absolute items of givenness."
"they they withdraw, find shocking what find shocking."
"Whether attention gets what it wants by ever renewed miracles or whether it possesses it in advance, in both cases silence is maintained over the production of the object."
"Intellectualism starts from this relativity of up and down, but cannot stand outside it in order to account for an actual perception of space."
"Correlatively, this infinity lies also in what actually is in the scientific sense, as well as, again, in universal validity, validity for everyone, the latter being understood as the subject of all groundings ever to be accomplished; and this everyone is no longer everyone in the finite sense of prescientific life."
"provided that we recognize a non thetic consciousness, we can allow what the psychologist calls absolute movement without falling into the difficulties of realism, and understand the phenomenon of movement without allowing our logic to destroy it."
"We perform our movements in a space which is not 'empty' or unrelated to them, but which on the contrary, bears a highly determinate relation to them:"
"The solution of all problems of transcendence is to be sought in the thickness of the pre objective present, in which we find our bodily being, our social being, and the preexistence of the world, that is, the starting point of 'explanations', in so far as they are legitimate and at the same time the basis of our freedom."
"But all this is based on the content of the next paragraph."
"In statements such as God is and the world is we predicate being."
"right now this, then"
"Perhaps, he says, 'at that very moment a person undergoing suggestions, as I was, was walking in the rain past a roast chestnut stall'."
"Merely being objectively present is more than lifeless, material thing."
"Yet one experiences daily the dying of others."
"The attitude oriented toward nature can have a different sense."
"Is not the epoche related to the totality of what is pregiven to me (who am philosophizing) and thus related to the whole world, including all human beings, and these not only in respect to their bodies?"
"Rather, it uses its results to direct itself toward a new proce dure."
"Or else I try really to understand how sight comes about, in which case I must get away from the constituted, from what is in itself, and seize by re<U+FB02>ection a being for whom the object can exist."
"One should not overlook, by the way, the new concept of phenomenon which arises for the first time with the Cartesian epoche."
"And then does every Dasein initially have its own world?"
"A sign is not really comprehended when we stare at it and ascertain that it is an indicating thing that occurs."
"The way in which it was initially seen is not a matter of chance, nor did it fail to have its influence on the history of logic to come."
"Real belonging to thinghood (Sachheit to what alone can concern us in this or that way."
"To know, however, means vidi, I have seen"
"Thomas Aquinas discussed this statement which refers back to Parmenides' ontological thesis in a manner characteristic of him."
"Our view is too short sighted if we make life a problem, and then occasionally also take death into account."
"Then it is for me no longer a matter of empty talk or vague opinion, a mere idea of perception."
"Freud, Introductory Lectures,."
"their own essential space."
"The kind of seeing of this accommodation to things is called circumspection."
"I may go so far as to say that from now on not only modern physicalistic naturalism but every objectivistic philosophy, whether of earlier or of future times, must be characterized as transcendental naivete."
"Corrected experience either as communal experience and reciprocal correction or as one's own personal experience and self correction does not change the relativity of experience; even as communal experience it is relative, and thus all descriptive assertions are necessarily relative, and all conceivable inferences, deductive or inductive, are relative."
"Piaget brings the child to a mature outlook as if the thoughts of the adult were self sufficient and disposed of all contradictions."
"The question of the nature of art, and of the path to knowing it,."
"Schneider hardly extends his sphere of human relationships at all, and when he makes new friendships they sometimes come to an unfortunate end: this is because they never result, as can be seen on analysis, from a spontaneous impulse, but from a decision made in the abstract."
"An<U+FFFD>t see a definite there and over here from which what is threatening approaches."
"Rather, every statement, whether affirmative or negative, whether false or true, is equiprimor dially synthesis and diairesis."
"At every step the analysis is an analysis of essence and an investigation of universal states of affairs that are constituted within immediate intuition."
"process still has to be explained, and this will still be done by recourse to a physiological or psychic mechanism, since the word is a passive shell."
"the as structure of interpre tation does not itself already represent a unitary phenomenon which is used copiously in philosophical problematics,"
"Whether authentically revealing or inauthentically concealing, bringing Dasein before the That of its own throwness is existentially pos sible only if the being of Da sein, by its very meaning is as constantly having been."
"empirical measuring with increasing precision, but under the guidance of a world of idealities, or rather a world of certain particular ideal structures that can be correlated with given scales of measurement such a world having been objectified in advance through idealization and construction."
"Time is thought of by us before its parts, and temporal relations make possible the events in time."
"This is why Husserl distinguishes between intentionality of act, which is that of our judgements and of those occasions when we voluntarily take up a position the only intentionality discussed in the Critique of Pure Reason and operative intentionality (fungierende Intentionalit t), or that which produces the natural and antepredicative unity of the world and of our life, being apparent in our desires, our evaluations and in the landscape we see, more clearly than in objective knowledge, and furnishing the text which our knowledge tries to translate into precise language."
"The human spirit, after all, is grounded on the human physis; each individual human psychic life is founded upon corporeity, and thus each community upon the bodies of the individual human beings who are members of it."
"Nor docs it say that something is punishable or must be avenged (according to the opinion of those who equate vengeance with justice)."
"Tactile and visual data, says Goldstein, are not juxtaposed in the normal person; the former derive from the proximity of the latter a 'qualitative colouring' which they have lost for Schneider."
"All this lies within the world horizon; but special motives are required when one who is gripped in this world life reorients himself and somehow comes to make the world itself thematic, to take up a lasting interest in it."
"Central lesions seem to leave qualities intact; on the other hand they modify the spatial organization of data and the perception of objects."
"The foregoing interpretation of signs should simply offer phe nomenal support for our characterization of reference."
"What is cast forth, however, is never an arbitrary demand."
"The manner in which we here come to the life world as a subject for scientific investigation makes this subject appear an ancillary and partial one within the full subject of objective science in general."
"What thus shows itself in itself the forms of intuition are the phenomena of phenomenology."
"One mode of certainty is conviction."
"This object, however, is also the in itselffor consciousness."
"How significance and intentionality could come to dwell in molecular edifices or masses of cells is a thing which can never be made comprehensible, and here Cartesianism is right."
"I may be mistaken, and need to rearrange my certainties, and reject the being to which my illusions give rise, but I do not for a moment doubt that in themselves things have been compatible and compossible, because from the very start I am in communication with one being, and one only, a vast individual from which my own experiences are taken, and which persists on the horizon of my life as the distant roar of a great city provides the background to everything we do in it."
"If historicity belongs to the being of Da sein, then even inauthentic existence must be historical."
"This same validates for us the translation of a and eT as the being and to be."
"Then how are we to time manifest in the horizon of the use of the clock that is cir cumspect and takes time for itself in taking care?"
"In accordance with the metaphysical concept of art, Nietzsche does not, under the rubric art, think exclusively or even primarily of the aesthetic realm of artists."
"What is this property with regard to the res corporea?"
"Boden is much used in connection with the concept of the life world; it suggests nourishing soil and support, rather than a logical ground or cause."
"Taking care makes use of the handiness of the sun giving forth light and warmth."
"This is, then, the intentional background of every straightforward ontic certainty of a presented thing."
"Northwestern University Press,."
"We recognize other humans beings through expression in their bodiliness, thus on the basis of physical objects, just as we recognize, on the one hand, artworks and other cultural objcts, and, on the other hand, social groups."
"It will perhaps be objected that by restoring the object to bodily experience as one of the poles of that experience, we deprive it of precisely that which constitutes its objectivity."
"Those who take it in that way, however, are not thinking very divinely about the essence of the divinity."
"if we were to avoid placing ourselves from the start, as does re<U+FB02>exive philosophy, in a transcendental dimension assumed to be eternally given, thus by passing the full problem of constitution."
"Lagneau, bres Le ons, pp."
"Conscience only call silently, that is, the call comes from the oundlessness of uncanniness and calls Dasein thus summoned back to the tillness of itself, and calls it to become still."
"As the earth takes the rift back into itself, the rift is for the first time set forth into the open and therefore placed,.e., set, into that which rises up in the open as the self closing and as the protecting."
"The who is answered in terms of the I itself, the subject, the self."
"It flees before that restlessness and so, in its own way, binds itself to it."
"But we must not overlook the fact that we are also using the tenn Mitda sein as a designation of the being to which the existing others"
"All that is required is that the concidence of myself with myself, as it is achieved in the cogito, shall never be a real coincidence, but merely an intentional and presumptive one."
"And this is not limited to vocal gossip, but spreads to what is written, as scribbling."
"With regard to the problem of an ontological analysis of the world liness of the world, traditional ontology is at a dead end if it sees the problem at all."
"Thus the question is: how can experience, so to speak, go beyond itself?"
"Spiritual being is fragmentary."
"The making present that awaits and retains of taking care understands time in its relation to a what for, that is in tum ultimately anchored in a for the sake of which of the potentiality of being of Da sein."
": How is it that a being which is still to come and has passed by, also has a present which means that the problem is eliminated, since the future, the past and the present are linked together in the movement of temporalization."
"To xpeoov harbours within it the still hidden essence of the lighting sheltering gathering."
"even merely as nature, in order to be thinkable at all, presuppose rational theory and a subjectivity which accomplishes it?"
"truth are authentic disclosedness truth of historical"
"The world is the sole universe of what is pregiven as obvious."
"Otherwise it would tum out that anything perceived, imagined, pretended, or symbolically represented, every fiction and absurdity would be given with evidence."
"The other name for beings that are in the mode of knowledge is subject that which everywhere is already lying before us, presencing, and hence accom panies"
"And can one distinguish between the thematic attitude directed at the objective world (as scientific theme) and the thematic attitude directed toward universal subjectivity, understood as subjectivity and everything subjective through which the world is experienced, appears, is judged about, valued, etc.?"
"Now it is a well known fact that, since antiquity, as soon as the question was raised as to what beings as such arc, it was the thing in its thingness which thrust itself forward as the paradigmatic being."
"Undefended in this way, man is of course, in the mode of deprivation, attracted to defense and so inside of defense."
"Scheler, like Dilthey, not only emphasizes the fact that reality is never primarily given in thinking and grasping, above all he also refers to the fact that knowl edge itself is, again, not judgment and that knowing is a relation of being."
"He must and I must have an outer appearance, and there must be, besides the perspective of the"
"This means that a being which is itself extended is sur rounded by the extended boundaries of something extended."
"But now we see that this exploration is not even necessary, and that consequently bearings are taken by a global act on the part of the perceiving subject."
"If it were a 'representative function', a pure power of signification, it could be or not be (and with it everything else), but it could not cease to be having once been, or become sick, that is, deteriorate."
",. are lost sight of, because specifications of a predicative kind are needed to link up objective and hermetically sealed qualities."
"Now the experience of nature, with its thoroughgoing, consciously produced identity of what is experienced, runs constantly through each personal life."
"The certainty lying at the foundation of this mbiec is, as such, indeed subjective.e., holding sway in the essence of the biecttmt, but is not egoistic."
"As modes of being of being in the world, directing and de distancing are guided beforehand by the circumspection of heedfulness."
"Yet every analysis, however knowledgeable and clever, of man and his position among beings remains thoughtless and produces only the semblance of reflection, so long as it refrains from thinking about a settlement for man's essence and from experiencing that place in the truth of being."
"To understand this as the understanding of understanding Verstehen from the understanding"
"We must see in which connection it appears as actual and genuine evidence, and what is actually genuinely given in this connection."
"Transcendental idealism too 'reduces' the world since, in so far as it guarantees the world, it does so by regarding it as thought or consciousness of the world, and as the mere correlative of our knowledge, with the result that it becomes immanent in consciousness and the aseity of things is thereby done away with."
"Projecting, which is fundamentally futural, does not primarily grasp the projected possibility thematically by opening it, but throws itself into it as possi bility."
"Rather, the vassal as vassal, the servant as servant, always has the will to have something else under him, over which he has command in the course of his service and whose service he makes use of."
"From this point onwards the distinction made by us elsewhere between structure and significati"
"Consciousness, however, is for itself its own concept; thereby it immediately transcends what is limited, and, since this latter be longs to it, consciousness transcends its own self."
"In the same way, though it is indeed from the dreamer that I was last night that I require an account of the dream, the dreamer himself offers no account, and the person who does so is awake."
"But it is easy to see that this seemingly obvious deliberation has lit tle ground to stand on."
"World as the wherein of being in, and world as innerworldly beings, that in which one is absorbed in taking care of things, are confused or else"
"This objective givenness of death must then make possible an ontological analysis of the totality of Da sein."
"That movement of the coming of appearance and of the going of phe nomena is the happening which, from shape to shape, brings consciousness into the sight that is, the image of its essence."
"Hence we ask: what will our opponent propose to do with his transcendent knowledge?"
"When we just look at things theoretically, we lack an understanding of handiness."
"We can understand, accordingly, that the history of transcendental philosophy first had to be a history of renewed attempts just to bring transcendental philosophy to its starting point and, above all, to a clear and proper self understanding of what it actually could and must undertake."
"and in grasping something, Dasein does not first go outside of the inner sphere in which it is initially encap sulated, but, rather, in its primary kind of being, it is always already outside together with some being encountered in the world already discovered."
"For the latter the world, presupposed by it as unquestionably existing, is the ground; and it is precisely this ground that the epoche has taken from us."
"By following the meaning of the words and the argument, I reach the conclusion that indeed because I think, I am; but this is merely a verbal cogito, for I have grasped my thought and my existence only through the medium of language, and the true formula of this cogito should be: '"
"That is the reason we look, first of all, for the reality of the work."
"Primordial time is finite."
"The things which stay awhile come to presence from out of the jointure between approach and withdrawal."
"The question is often framed as if the perception of a letter written on paper aroused the representation of the same letter which in turn aroused the representation of the movement needed to strike it on the machine."
"But ontology has tried precisely to interpret the being of the world as extensa res on the basis of spatiality."
"Gaining phenomenological access to the beings thus encountered consists rather in rej ec ting the interpretational tendencies crowding and accompanying us which cover over the phenomenon of taking care of things in general, and thus even more so beings encountered of their own accord in taking care."
"Besides these two essential determinations of attunement just explicated, the disclosure of thrownness and the actual disclosure of the whole of being in the world, we must notice a third which above all contributes to a more penetrating understanding of the worldliness of the world."
"And only because truth, as discovering, is a I. kind of being of Da sein, can it be removed from the arbitrariness of Da sein."
"The mode which beings (whose essentio is the will to power) in their entirety exist, their existentia, is the eternal return of the same."
"Gelb and Goldstein, Zur Psychologie des optischen Wahrnehmungs"
"One could be tempted to illustrate the distinctive role of signs in everyday heedfulness for the understanding of the world itself by citing the extensive use of signs, such as fetishism and magic, in primitive Da sein."
"Vhereas the first interpretation of the thing holds it, as it were, too far away from the body, the second brings it too close."
"Now in our epoch everyone has in surrounding world, in the practical realm of general availability, a science of history, and in particular a scientific history of philosophy; or rather, belonging as a preliminary stage to general history itself and to every sort of special history is a scientific preliminary interpre."
"But then it may soon afterwards become apparent that this riddle does not inhabit certain other kinds of knowledge."
"I rev. ed., and, above all, Formale und transzendentale Logik (Halle: Niemeyer, ."
", however, not only remains preliminarily and at times inaccessible to one's own or to others' experience, it is not yet real at all."
"his lectures on the history of Greek philosophy, at the point where he comes to speak about the sources for our knowledge of the oldest epoch of philosophy, Hegel says the following: Aristotle is the richest source."
"Why does my life succeed in drawing itself together in order to project itself in words, intentions and acts?"
"It loses sight of itself as a contingent fact, and takes to resting upon itself; this is, as we have seen, what provides us with the ideal of thought without words, whereas the idea of music without sounds is ridiculous."
"To say that I have a visual field is to say that by reason of my position I have access to and an opening upon a system of beings, visible beings, that these are at the disposal of my gaze in virtue of a kind of primordial contract and through a gift of nature, with no effort made on my part; from which it follows that vision is prepersonal."
"They say that it is certain that death comes."
"He cannot take a bird's eye view of his past and unhesitatingly rediscover it by going from the whole to the parts: he rebuilds it, starting with a fragment which has kept its meaning and which provides him with a 'supporting point'."
"If the every day interpretation knows about a voice of conscience, it is thinking not so much about an utterance, which can factically never be found, but voice is understood as giving to understand."
"This will open the gates to the new dimension we have repeatedly referred to in advance."
"The light that constitutes this clearedness of Dasein is not a power or source, objectively present ontically, for a radiant brightness sometimes occurring in this being."
"We shall call the latter something belonging to the world, or inner worldly."
"We know that we are called to this task as serious philosophers."
"philosophy in its first immature forms in the English and in Kant, even though these philosophers hardly accomplished a serious scientific grounding, and even though Hume withdrew into an unhealthy academic skepticism, does not, on the whole, represent a wrong path, nor one among other possible paths at all, but the one path of the future which the development of philosophy absolutely had to take in order to penetrate to the fulfilled methodical form through which alone it could be truly scientific, a philosophy working in the actual self understanding of the sense of its task, in the spirit of finality, working with an apodictic self evidence of its ground, its goals, its methods."
"But as a psyche speaking of the psyche, he was all that he was talking about."
"If we succeed in understanding the subject, it will not be in its pure form, but by seeking it at the intersection of its dimensions."
"need not mention the fact that we have already grasped the matter in a purer and deeper way than Descartes did, and that we have thus grasped and understood evidence, clear and distinct perception, in a purer sense."
"would be able to see the meaning or essence of illness, and recognize a unity of consciousness which is not evident on the plane of being, and which is vouched for, in its own eyes, on the plane of truth."
"But even in this pure succession of nows passing away in itself, primordial time reveals itself in spite of all levelling down and covering over."
"There is neither knowledge nor lack of knowledge about it."
"pursuing the task of destructuring on the guideline the prob lem of temporality the following treatise will attempt to interpret the chapter on the schematism and the Kantian doctrine of time developed there."
"I see it; I grasp it."
"Dasein rather flees from such definiteness."
"The restricted character of the exemplary analyses carried out so far; an indication of further horizons of exposition."
"The problem atic characterized is undoub tably ontological."
"But word things are not provided with significations."
"That is true of all world historical processes and events, and in a way even of catastrophes of nature."
"Quite generally, it is as impossible to deny that I have much to learn about myself, as it is to posit ahead of time, in the very heart of me, a knowledge of myself containing in advance all that I am later destined to know of myself, after having read books and had experiences at present unsuspected by me."
"But then summoning to being guilty means a calling forth to the potentiality of being that I always already am as Da sein."
"Our interest is confined here to the philosophical modern age."
"I Gebirge is a gathering of mountains Berge."
"How is a substance as such, that is, ts substantiality to be understood?"
"Extension must primarily be attributed to the corporeal thing."
"The will to power is the essence of power."
"Rather, logos as speech really means deloun, to make manifest what is being talked about in speech."
"This pre conscious possession of the world remains to be analysed in the pre re<U+FB02>ective cogito."
"When I say that I see a sound, I mean that I echo the vibration of the sound with my whole sensory being, and particularly with that sector of myself which is susceptible to colours."
"non consistere in eo quod sit res dura vel ponderosa vel colorata, vel alio aliquo modo senses afficiens:"
"adumbrates the empty form of the true event."
"The jet ascends, and falling fills The marble basin round."
"Whether these traces are physical, or whether they are imprinted on an 'unconscious psychic life', is of little importance, and in both cases the conception of language is the same in that there is no 'speaking subject'."
"space them the and eventually"
"In this case the colour, before being seen, gives itself away through the experience of a certain bodily attitude appropriate only to that colour and precisely indicative of it: 'there is in my body a sensation of slipping Goldstein and Rosenthal, art."
"in the fact that in it the thematic beings are discovered in the only way that beings can be discovered: in the prior project of their constitution of being."
"But we did not discuss the question of the everyday kind of being of these ways of being."
"and so be the beings they are."
"on this point La Structure du Comportement, pp."
"Of course the weight of the theoretical and practical successes of science beginning immediately with Galileo, had its effect."
", a serious reservation comes to light:"
"Thus it happens that the prevailing concepts of the thing block the way to the thingness of the thing, the equipmentality of equipment, and all the more to the workly character of the work."
"True, Dasein is ontically not only what is near or even nearest"
"The they always did it, I. and yet it can be said that no one did it."
"There can be no question of describing perception itself as one of the facts thrown up in the world, since we can never fill up, in the picture of the world, that gap which we ourselves are, and by which it comes into existence for someone, since perception is the '<U+FB02>aw' in this 'great diamond'."
"that in saying now to be open for the horizon of the later, that is, the now not yet."
"If the projected region is to become objectified, then it must be brought to encounter us in the full multiplicity of its levels and intcrweavings."
"Still less is it arbitrary when the life of the body is integrated to our concrete existence."
"They are tacitly known to perception in an obscure form, and they validate it by a wordless logic."
"In our exposition of the problem of worldliness (section we referred to the importance of gaining proper access to this phe nomenon."
"The structure of the worldliness of the world is such that thers are not initially objectively present as unattached subjects along with other things, but show themselves in their heedful being in the surrounding world in terms of the things at hand in that world."
"But it is just as certain that this art which is in nature is made manifest only by the work, made manifest because it is found in the work in a primordial way."
"that we need the work"
"But now we are faced with the question: How is it to be understood that such an unscientific style could be developed and propagated at all, in great philosophers and their philosophies, when the development of modern philosophy was so animated by the will to science?"
"However, with Descartes it is not just a matter of neglect and thus of a complete ontological indeterminateness of the res cogitans sive sive animus the thinking thing, mens whether it be mind or spirit."
"His toriographical thematizaion en ters on developing the hermeneutical situation that is opened up once historically existing Dasein has made its resolution to the disclosure in retrieve of what has been there."
"The same is true of the interpretation of the dialectic as in finite negativity."
"The original meaning (phenomenon, what is manifest) already contains and is the basis of phainomenon semblance."
"Everything we talk about, mean, and are related to is in being in one way or another."
"The meaning of the call becomes clear if our understanding of it"
"Does it not thus finally become evident that this prob lem of fundamental ontology that we have set forth is moving in a cir cle We already showed, in the structure of understanding in general, that what is faulted with the inappropriate expression circle belongs to the essence and the distinctiveness of understanding itself."
"The essence of spirit, however, is based in self consciousness."
"At first this was to introduce con siderable difficulties, even in respect to the idea of God coming from religion, an idea which had by no means been given up."
"The structure of care as being ahead tif itself already being in a world as being together with innerworldly beings contains the dis closedness of Da sein."
"Dasein initially finds itself' in what it does, needs, takes care of expects, has charge of, in the things at hand which it initially in the surrounding world."
"Temporality first showed tself in anticipatory resoluteness."
"The generality of the 'r le' and of the situation comes to the aid of decision, and in this exchange between the situation and the person who takes it up, it is impossible to determine precisely the 'share contributed by the situation' and the 'share contributed by freedom'."
"Phenomen ology is itself being, in the mode of which the absolute in and for itself is with us."
"Yet perhaps what, here and in sirnilar cases, we call feeling or mood is more rational more perceptive"
"this refers to a fact that occurs purely within the spiritual realm."
"We have already char acterized the everyday attunement that consists in an air of superiority with regard to the certain fact of death a superiority that is anx iously concerned while seemingly free of Angst."
"the risk, is ambiguous as a metaphysical term."
"But, then, is the existential analytical answer to the question of the who without any clues at all?"
"Even if I stop at perception, I still have the full consciousness of the thing, just as I already have it at the first glance when I see it as this thing."
"If anything distinguishes the work as a work it is the fact that it has been created."
"Can't you hear my voices?'"
"What is true, however and justifies the view that we ordinarily take of language, as being in a peculiar category is that, alone of all expressive processes, speech is able to settle into a sediment and constitute an acquisition for use in human relationships."
"Relevance and Significance:"
"In the action of the hand which is raised towards an object is contained a reference to the object, not as an object represented, but as that highly specific thing towards which we project ourselves, near which we are, in anticipation, and which we haunt."
"It is cut off with regard to its possibilities of the articulation of referential relations of significance which constitute the character of the surrounding world."
"and in what way this concept of time and the common understanding of time in general originate from temporality."
"Even that universal meditation Val ry, Introduction la thode de onard de Vinci, Vari."
"In other words, each of us has his life world, meant as the world for all."
"And through self evidence, the necessities belonging to the possible maintenance of identity become generally known; while that which is identical undergoes only those variations which maintain its identity."
"We must think its genitive likewise as dialectical speculative."
"Experience gathers consciousness into the gathering of its own essence."
"On the seventh day, the placing of sounds is correct so long as the sounding object is seen as well as heard."
"It brings one back to the pure That of one's own most, individuated thrownness."
"This kind of use of signs is still com pletely absorbed in the being of what is indicated so that a sign as such cannot be detached at all."
"For as being in the world, Dasein is always a heedful being with."
"Care turns into taking care of possibilities, resting and staying to see the world only its ward appearance."
"It precisely does not insist on sheer persistence."
"Then instead of a so calle public conscience instead of this radical externalization individual conscience,.e., con science, would again become powerful."
"Even if the form is not the setting in which, but the means whereby the content is posited, it is not the sufficient means of this act of positing as far as bodily space is concerned, and to this extent the bodily content remains, in relation to it, something opaque, fortuitous and unintelligible."
"The inappropriate way of approaching the problem is still endorsed when one confmes oneself to a faith in the reality of the external world, even if this faith is explicitly acknowl edged."
"They are the representatives of developments which have a unified meaning because of their work, because of the new universal objectives outlined in their developed theories."
"But the transcendental correlation between the world in the transcendental life of constituting subjectivity and the world itself, as it constantly outlines and confirms itself in the lifecommunity of transcendental inter subjectivity as a pole idea, is not the puzzling correlation which occurs in the world itself."
"Any life that is restricted to mere preservation is already in decline."
"In other words: to look at an object is to inhabit it, and from this habitation to grasp all things in terms of the aspect which they present to it."
"While it is day gives to awaiting that takes care the possibility of determining in a precautionary way the thens of what is to be taken care of, that is, of dividing up the day."
"The self willing man always calcu lates with things and people as he does with objects."
"But existence can also master the everyday in the Moment, often only for the moment, but it can never extinguish it."
"But, once more, my human gaze never posits more than one facet of the object, even though by means of horizons it is directed towards all the others."
"In these immanent crises of the sciences the relation of positive questioning to the mat ter in question becomes unstable."
"It is not a matter of proving that and how an external world is objectively present, but of demon strating why Dasein as being in the world has the tendency of initially burying the external world in nullity epistemologically in order first to prove it."
"What has been said here presupposes that one is fully clear about our way of explicating intentional life, through the epoche, as accomplishing life, and that one has first achieved the insight that even in the most straightforward perception, and likewise in every consciousness of something having the simple, straightforward validity of existence, there lies an aiming, one that is realized in the harmoniousness of ever new ontic validities (those of the manners of givenness themselves) and,.in the case of intuition, realizes the thing itself."
"One is tempted to say that through the sensations produced by the pressure of the stick on the hand, the blind man builds up the stick along with its various positions, and that the latter then mediate a second order object, the external thing."
"Nor is anything decided ontically about the otherworldly and its possibility any more than about the this worldly as if norms and rules for behavior toward death should be proposed for edification."
"The whole attractive relation to which all beings (as beings that are risked) are given over is what Rilke likes to call the open."
"But the symmetrical area of the right retina is also full of visual excitations, the distribution of stimuion the two retinas is 'dissymmetrical' only to a subject who compares the two groupings and identifies them."
"If we were absolute mind, the reduction would present no problem."
"It is told that on the same day the madman forced his way into different churches and staned to sing his Requiem aeternnm deo in them."
"at last arises from the horizon of the understanding of inauthentic his toricity the question of how one is to establish Da sein's connectedness if one does in the sense of the experiences of the subject also objec tively present."
"Conscience always speaks relative to a definite deed that has been done or wished for."
"The other person is never quite a personal being, if I myself am totally one, and if I grasp myself as apodeictically self evident."
"It is known that the uniformity of apparent size of objects at different distances, or of their colour in different lights, is more perfect in children than in adults."
"There is in this instance no more choice than in the case of a drop of oil which uses all its strength to solve in practical terms the maximum and minimum problem which confronts it."
"And of course there is also logical give/mess, the givenness of universality, of predicates, of states of affairs, etc., and the givenness of absurdity, contradiction, of a noll existent object, etc."
"Lingering awhile, it lingers still in arrival and lingers already in departure."
"In reflection the cogitatio, the appearing itself, becomes an object, and this encourages the development of the equivocation."
"As a result, the concept of the phenomenological reduction acquires a more precise and deeper determination, and a clearer sense: it is not the exclusion of the really reell transcendent (say, in the psychological empirical sense), rather it is the exclusion of the transcendent as such, as an existence to be assumed,"
"As opposed to realism, idealism, no matter how contraryt and untenable it might be, has a fundamental priority, if it does not misun derstand itself as psychological idealism."
"The term irresoluteness merely expresses the phe nomenon that was interpreted as being at the mercy of thedominant interpretedness of the they."
"This is not the pla for a detailed discussion of the problems that motivated him or how they motivated him."
"That which stays awhile in presence presences by sunnounting reckless dis order, the a Kia, which itself prevails in the while as an essential pos sibility."
"We may credit the philosophers with the noblest intentions, we may even be firmly convinced of the teleological sense of history and accord even to their constructs a significance"
"In the scope of its heedful absorption in useful things at hand, does not Dasein have a possibility of being in which, together with the innerworldly beings taken care of, their worldliness becomes apparent to it in a certain way?"
"In the first place it was stated that my body is distinguishable from the table or the lamp in that I can turn away from the latter whereas my body is constantly perceived."
"This guiding look at being grows out of the average understanding of being in which we are always already involved and which ultimatelyt belongs to the essential constitution of Dasein itself."
"Science may come on the scene only by accomplishing the presentation of knowledge as phenomenon."
"Vision can be reduced to the mere presumption of seeing only if it is represented as the contemplation of a shifting and anchorless quale."
"In what way is this relation possible, as a relation between intellectus and res?"
"Patients 'at first see colours in the way that we smell an odour: it closes round us, and acts upon us, without however filling a determinate form of a determinate extent'."
"does not lose its specific genuineness when it is really not afraid."
"I regard my body, which is my point of view upon the world, as one of the objects of that world."
"For it amounts to introducing non thetic consciousness into the perception of movement, that is, as we have shown, it amounts to rejecting not only the a priori as essential necessity, but also the Kantian notion of synthesis."
"What would therefore remain as the original saying of Anaximander is only this:. ."
"Aber sic sind, sagst du, wie des Wcingotts heilige Priester, Welche von Lande zu Land zogen in hcilige Nacht."
"One had simply to grasp it and to see it."
"The ninth pamgraph, all the same, takes up again just this natural representation of knowledge."
"Also available to him as a tradition, of course itself partially determined in the meantime by geometry was the art of measuring, with its intention of ever increasing exactness of measurement and the resulting objective determination of the shapes themselves."
"They are indeed, when we do not limit ourselves to their objective aspect, but put them back into the setting of subjectivity."
"The Spatiality of erworldly Things at Hand"
"If I place the ego and the world and the experience of the ego as such in question, then reflection upon what is given in the apperception of the relevant experience, upon my ego a reflection that simply sees yields the phenomenon of this apperception: the phenomenon, roughly, of perception apprehended as my perception."
"that is, such that I can hold sway in a particular perception in just the ways peculiar to these functions."
"But this is apperceived inductively, and the apperception is an objective one."
"that it under stands itself in terms of possibilities and, thus understanding itself, is thrown eing."
"See Translator's Introduction,."
"patient, nothing further happens, nothing assumes meaning and form in life, or more precisely there occurs"
"The spatiality of Da sein, which is essentially not objective presence, can mean neither omething like being found in a position in world space nor being at hand in a place."
"Fischer, Zur Klinik und Psychologie des Raumerlebens,."
"For us this means that Hegel understood the pre Platonic and pre Socratic philosophers as the pre Aristotelians."
"Ontically, to let something be relevant means to let things at hand"
"The will to power, as soon as it comes to light specifically in its pure essence, is itself the ground and realm for the dispensation of value."
"It moves within the differentiation of the difference as which consciousness itself is."
"Intellectualism is unequal to dealing with this perceptual life, either falling short of it overshooting it; it calls up as limiting cases the manifold qualities which are merely the outer casing of the object, and from there it passes on to a consciousness of the object which claims to hold within itself the law or secret of that object, and which for this reason deprives the development of the experience of its contingency and the object of its distinctive perceptual style."
"Being toward beings has not been extinguished but uprooted."
"The existential interpretation of the historicity of Dasein con stantly gets eclipsed unawares."
"We only want to delimit that range of phenomena that we also necessarily have in mind ontologically when we speak about the his toricity of Da sein."
"What happens is that I see my partner's unwillingness, and my gesture of impatience emerges from this situation without any intervening thought."
"In them there essences the parousia of the absolute."
"But it would follow from this that language can teach us nothing, and that it can at the most arouse in us new combinations of those meanings already possessed by us."
"Taking over authentically thrownness, however, is possible only in such a way that futural Dasein can be its ownmost how it always already was, that is, its having been."
"I am speaking now of the alteration of perspectives."
"The individual piece of equipment becomes worn out and used up."
"The first note is entitled The Ways of Freedom."
"But the question arises again: how we are guilty and what guilt means?"
"But in all its forms it is on its way to a higher rationahty; it is rationality which, discovering again and again its unsatisfying relativity, is driven on in its toils, in its will to attain the true and full rationahty."
"His version is: Of course I am free to transform world consciousness Actively."
"Among animals, human beings stand out, so much so, in fact, that mere animals have ontic meaning as such only by comparison to themerst von ihnen her as variations of them."
"From the start one must strictly avoid all the false analogizing which does violence to this difference."
"That presentation is only a part of science."
"Verz:weiflung is the matter for the presentation,.e."
"The fonner originates from the natural attitude of the mind, the latter from the philosophical."
"In this way philosophy begins as cosmology; it is first as it were, obviously directed in its theoretical interest toward corporeal nature, since, after all, everything given in space time has in any case, at least at its basis, the existential formula of corporeity."
"This setting itself is spatially particularized only for a previously given level."
"The psychologist is at first tempted to that after the glasses have been put on, the visual world is given to the subject exactly as if it had been turned through and consequently is upside down for him."
"I apprehend my thing filled surroundings, right up to the most distant world of fixed stars."
"It is a direction, as I shall try to show here, toward a final form of transcendental philosophy as phenomenology."
"Entan gled hankering reveals the predilection of Dasein to be lived by the world in which it actually is."
"I said that the knowledge with which the critique of knowledge must begin may not contain anything that can be questioned or doubted, anything that throws us into epistemological confusion and thus gives rise to the critique of knowledge in the first place."
"The within the world for a Dasein because Dasein in itself is essentially being with."
"are res extensae, are experienced in changeable collocations which, taken as a whole, have their total collocation; in these, particular bodies have their relative positions, etc."
"the phenomena to be explicated in the following analysis under the rubric of temporality are precisely those that determine the covert judgments most of common reason, analysis of which Kant calls the business of philosophers."
"Experience identifies what phenomenology is."
"At every stage it is as if the subject did not know what is to be done."
"However, natural science does not first become re search through experiment."
"Only surroundings Umge bung)."
"Bindung is the rigor of research."
"Each thing that we experience, that we have to do with in any way"
"When every researcher works on his part of the building, what of the vocational interruptions and time out for rest, which cannot be overlooked here?"
"By this means, createdness itself is specifically created into the work and stands as the silent thrust into the open of the that."
"Moreover, the in termingling of form and matter that is operative in these cases is controlled beforehand by the purposes jug, ax, and shoes are to serve."
"Do you know,' says one patient, 'while we are talking, someone is saying one thing or another to me."
"In this sense, that is, even if contradictions arise from them, they do not damage the identity."
"The foregoing considerations on the philosophy of the spirit provide us with the proper attitude for grasping and dealing with our subject of spiritual Europe as a problem purely within the humanistic disciplines, and first of all in the manner of spiritual history."
"this rexvn is still an intellectual accomplishment which must be clear and understandable at every step, must possess the self evidence of the step made and of the ground upon which it rests; and to this extent (taken thus formally) the same thing holds for it that holds for every technically self evident science practiced artfully, such as mathematics, for example."
"The existential inter pretation of historiography as a science aims solely at a demonstration of its ontological provenance from the historicity of Da sein."
"Where physicalistic rationalism could not be carried through in earnest, as precisely in the case of metaphysics, aid was sought in unclear qualifications, through the use of variations of Scholastic concepts."
"What is given is not myself as opposed to others, my present as opposed to my past, sane consciousness with its cogito as opposed to consciousness a<U+FB04>icted with hallucinations, the former being sole As Alain accuses the psychologists of doing."
"What really matters is that we open our eyes to the fact that the workliness of the work, the equipmentality of equipment, and the thingliness of the thing come nearer to us only when we think the being of beings."
"Sense experience' has become once more a question for us."
"The change in the chronaxies could not be the cause of synaesthesia, but the objective expression or sign of a more profound and all embracing event, which has no seat in the objective body, but which is relevant to the phenomenal body as a vehicle of being in the world."
"Every present grasps, by stages, through its horizon of immediate past and near future, the totality of possible time; thus Thus Saint Exup ry, above Arras, with shells bursting all round him, can no longer feel as a thing distinct from him"
"Not only things, how ever, belong ng beings."
"Dasein is always already in irresoluteness, and perhaps will be soon again."
"What, in fact, do we mean when we say that there is no world without a being in the world?"
"If we put the emphasized words together, they give the title which Hegel originally gave to The Phenomenolog;y of Spirit: Science of the Experience of Consciousness."
"That is why Rilke can say in a late poem:"
"Real knowledge is the knowledge that represents, always and everywhere, beings in their beingncss (reality), phenomena in their appearing."
"If consciousness furnished its criterion in itself, the implication, rigorously thought, would be: consciousness furnishes itself a criterion for itself."
"she pushes schiebt molded dough into the oven shelter), to bake."
"In this, it is true, there is another transformation of things into the inward and invisible."
"To define the I ontologically as a subject means to posit it as something always already objectively present."
"correction, are transformed into mere appearances of the world, the life world for all, the intentional unity which always persists, which in turn is itself a universe of particulars, of things."
"What is projected in the primordial existential projectof existence revealed itself as anticipatory resoluteness."
"Thus the significance of psychoanalysis is less to make psychology biological than to discover a dialectical process in functions thought of as 'purely bodily', and to reintegrate sexuality into the human being."
"can be made into an object ofpure seeing and apprehension while it is occurring."
"The presentation, too, is a knowledge."
"Dull means at the same time a dull, muffled tone, which comes from a depth and has found a way of carrying."
"If, however, the inversion of defenselessness into the open concerns the essence of defenselessness in advance, then the reversal of defenselessness is a reversal of consciousness, or more precisely within the sphere of consciousness."
"Understanding is grounded primarily in the future (anticipation or awaiting)."
"The development of the question of being (cf."
"The presuppositions of principle for this conviction have never been explored because they have never been seriously made a problem."
"The further course of the reflections in this text will show how, when human subjectivity was brought into the problems of correlation, a radical transformation of the meaning of these problems became necessary which finally led to the phenomenological reduction to absolute, transcendental subjectivity."
"In this way will as will wills above and beyond itself, and therefore at the same time it must bring itself beneath and behind itself."
"For how could inferences from data to other data ever reach beyond the immanent sphere?"
"We know that there are errors only because we possess truth, in the name of which we correct errors and recognize them as errors."
"Structure du Comportement, pp."
"In these processes the methodology of a science is circumscribed by its own results."
"An example of a great discovery a merely preliminary discovery is the understanding which has, in respect to nature, two functions:"
"Our reflection avoids from the very beginning the path which ini"
"In the quantitative sphere, in the realm of extension, everything true expresses itself."
"It intends to come to a prior understanding about the mode of knowing in which it knows absolutely."
"Before that we mus remember in what way Dasein is spatial."
"The circumspect as well as the theoretical discovery of innerworldly beings is based upon being in the world."
"This experience is again possible only on the basis of wanting to halt time."
"The description of the surrounding world nearest to us, for exam ple, the work world of the handworker, showed that together with the I. useful things found in work, others are also encountered for whom the work is to be done."
"As life world the world has, even prior to science, the same structures that the objective sciences presuppose in their substruction of a world which exists in itself and is determined through truths in themselves (this substruction being taken for granted due to the tradition of centuries); these are the same structures that they presuppose as a priori structures and systematically unfold in a priori sciences, sciences of the logos, the universal methodical norms by which any knowledge of the world existing in itself, objectively must be bound."
"It is not only the case that that conformity with which a cognition orders itself region in which must already be somehow unconcealed."
"It will not explain knowledge as a psychological fact; it will not investigate the natural conditions under which acts of knowledge come and go, or the natural laws by which they originate and change."
"Here we can only sketch them in broad outlines."
"Thus, at the same time, usage hands presencing over into dis order."
"The ens is the co agitattml perceptionis."
"Windelband assigns forms to history."
"They presented consciousness, the absolute certainty of my existence for myself, as the condition of there being anything at all; and the act of relating as the basis of relatedness."
"In existing, it is disclosed to itself in its being."
"Precisely the leveling out of its essence and non essence in the averageness of the taken for granted, makes research as the shape of science and so of modernity in general capable of enduring."
"These motivations may be supposed to take advantage of a particular sensitivity of the throat and the mouth in the case of our subject, a sensitivity which may be related to the history of her libido and to the oral phase of sexuality."
"Anticipatory resoluteness discloses the actual situation of the there in such a way that existence circumspectly takes care of the factical Ambiguous: existentiell project and existential self enga gement projecting itself into that project go together."
"However, if we look more closely, we shall see that the impossibility of a decisive experiment, in psychology, is attributable to special reasons."
"Hence comes the ambiguity of this truth."
"This being in itself of the known is called truth. '"
"Our view of man will remain superficial so long as we fail to go back to that origin, so long as we fail to find, beneath the chatter of words, the primordial silence, and as long as we do not describe the action which breaks this silence."
"The perplexities in which the reflection on the possibility of a knowledge that makes contact with the things themselves becomes involved: how can knowledge be sure that it corresponds to things as they exist in themselves, that it makes contact with them?"
"Yet since only those who risk more are capable of it, the saying that says more is only occasional."
"Their saying concerns the remembering (making inward) reversal of consciousness which turns our defenselessness into the."
"It reveals the fact that any being together with what is taken care of and any being with the others fails when one's ownmost potentiality of being is at stake."
"In the transition from the one to the other science, the identification is accomplished as a matter of course."
"The 'real' is that environment in which each moment is not only inseparable from the rest, but in some way synonymous with them, in which the 'aspects' are mutually significatory and absolutely equivalent."
"It must, however, not do so since this does not name the essential and original meaning of the word."
"What misleads us in this connection, and causes us to believe in a thought which exists for itself prior to expression, is thought already constituted and expressed, which we can silently recall to ourselves, and through which we acquire the illusion of an inner life."
"The analysis of 'abstract movement' in patients throws into relief this possession of space, this spatial existence which is the primary condition of all living perception."
"This happening is, in many different ways, historical."
"Everyday a sein always already is in this way; for example, in opening the door, I use the door knob."
"Goldstein, L'Analyse de l'aphasie et l'essence du langage."
"It is the temporal meaning of the kind of being that I initially and for the most part am as having been."
"This, however, does not secure any essential difference between truths of fact and truths of reason."
"It is possible for every phenomenological concept and proposition drawn from genuine origins to degenerate when communicated as a statement."
"we chose the using, handling, and producing of things at hand an their deficient and undifferentiated modes that the being togeth er with things that belong to everyday need."
"But the revelation of this impossibility means to let the possibility of an authentic potentiality of being shine forth."
"I means the being that is concerned about the being of the being which it is."
"This other being of beings has I 'S meanwhile (and"
"lbis individualizing fetches Dasein back from its falling prey and reveals to it authenticity and inauthenticity as possibilities of its being."
"In the first case, I am concerned with physical space, with its variously qualified regions: in the second with geometrical space having interchangeable dimensions, homogeneous and isotropic, and here I can at least think of a pure change of place which would leave the moving body unchanged, and consequently a pure position distinct from the situation of the object in its concrete context."
"A Preliminary Sketch of the Existential and Ontological Structure ofDeath From our considerations of something outstanding, end, and totality there has resulted the necessity of interpreting the phenomenon of death as being toward the end in terms of the fundamental constitution of Da sein."
"This begins with the fundamental postulation of a law."
"The intuition of some particular essence necessarily precedes, in our experience, the essence of intuition."
"Kant is reinterpreted even in empiricist fashion, as the historical traditions are mixed and interwoven, creating for all scientists a quasiphilosophical atmosphere involving a widely discussed but by no means deeply or autonomously conceived theory of knowledge."
"emlich es reichen Die Sterblichen eh' in den Abgrund."
"The beingfor which something is outstanding has the I kind of being of something at hand."
"The genuine philosophical motif hidden in the absurdity of Hume's skepticism: the shaking of objectivism."
"It must exist for us even though we may not be thinking of it, and all our recollections must have their substance in and be drawn from this opaque mass."
"This origin means that the time in which objctively present things come into being and pass away is a genuine phenomenon of time; it is not an extemalization of a qualitative time into space, as Bergson's interpretation of time which is ontologically completely indeterminate and insufficient would have it."
"And if all objective space is for intellectual consciousness only, we must find the categorical attitude even in the movement of grasping itself."
"This appearing (as this being of truth in the work and as the work) is beauty."
"Conversely in the normal person the subject's intentions are immediately re<U+FB02>ected in the perceptual field, polarizing it, or placing their seal upon it, or setting up in it, effortlessly, a wave of significance."
"It is I who reconstitute the historical cogito, I who read Descartes' text, I who recognize in it an undying truth, so that finally the Cartesian cogito acquires its significance only through my own cogito, and I should have no thought of it, had I not within myself all that is needed to invent it."
"It is easy to see that we are moving in a circle."
"The act of attention can localize or objectify this invariable factor because it has stepped back from the changes of appearance."
"It is as if there were an incompatibility, vividly experienced, between the sight of the illuminated paper and that of a solid cone, and as if the significance of part of the spectacle induced a reassessment of the significance of the whole."
"The presentation of phenomenal knowledge First edition,."
"Circumspect heed fulness is a directional de distancing."
"In the beginning is the deed."
"Then, however, taking care of the actualization of what is thus possible would have to mean bringing about one's own demise."
"What the person does and suffers, what happens within him, how he stands in relation to his surrounding world, what angers him, what depresses him"
"It is for the same reasons that a self evident truth is irresistible in fact, yet always questionable, which amounts to two ways of saying the same thing: namely, that it is irresistible because I take for granted a certain acquisition of experience, a certain field of thought, and precisely for this reason it appears to me as self evident for a certain thinking nature, the one which I enjoy and perpetuate, but which remains contingent and given to itself."
"als selbst das Leben ist"
"worldly thing at hand that can be taken up and spoken about further."
"What is new, unprecedented, is the conceiving of this idea of a rational infinite totality of being with a rational science systematically mastering it."
"Generally speaking, Bergson saw that the body and the mind communicate with each other through the medium of time, that to be a mind is to stand above time's <U+FB02>ow and that to have a body"
"The phenomenon of being in the world would no more be met with than it would be by demonstrating that the physical and the psychical are objectively present together."
"But a doubt arises all the same."
"We, as living in wakeful world consciousness, are constantly active on the basis of our passive having of the world; it is from there, by objects pregiven in consciousness, that we are aflPected; it is to this or that object that we pay attention, according to our interests; with them we deal actively in different ways; through our acts they are thematic objects."
"Its effectiveness is its holding sway as ego; this occurs immediately In terms of the life world, this means nothing other than that a body, which as such can already be explicated with its experiential meaning through its own essential properties, is always at the same time a body, in its being such, under particular circumstances, First of all, it belongs to the most general structure of the life world that the body has,"
"According to the usual account, language is a kind of communication."
"Care, the being of Da sein, thus means, as thrown proj ect:"
"I legcl uses being to designate the reality which in his sense is still untrue."
"I As a possible concretion of the what for of serviceability, the indicating is based upon the structure of useful things in general, upon the in order to (reference)."
"Are we to say that the existence of the other is for me a simple fact?"
"Our absorption in taking care of things in the work world nearest to us has the function of discovering; depending upon the way we are absorbed, innerworldly beings that are brought along together with their constitutive references are discoverable in varying degrees of explic itness and with a varying attentive penetration."
"Rather, it is concerned to reproduce the general essence of things."
"There is no act, no particular experience which exactly fills my consciousness and imprisons my freedom, 'there is no thought which abolishes the power to think and brings it to a conclusion no definite position of the bolt that finally closes the lock."
"As factical being in the world, Da sein, falling prey, has already falle away from itself; and it has not fallen prey to some being which it first runs into in the course of its being, or perhaps does not, but it has fallen prey to the world which itself belongs to its being."
"The words a (a, Tia have a broad signification which cannot be enclosed within particular disciplines."
"Logos lets som<U+FFFD>thing be seen (phainesthai), namely what is being talked about, and indeed for the speaker (who serves as the medium) or for those who speak with each other."
"This imperfect picture of my body, its marginal presentation, and its equivocal status as touching and touched, could not therefore be structural characteristics of the body itself; they did not affect the idea of it; they became 'distinctive characteristics' of those contents of consciousness which make up our representation of the body: these contents are consistent, affective and strangely duplicated in 'double sensations', but apart from this the representation of the body is a representation like any other and correspondingly"
"With Liepmann's subject (the 'counsellor of state'), the ideational process is normal, since the subject can perform with his left hand everything that he is prevented from performing with his right."
"Every indicating is a reference, but not every reference is an indicating."
"Science, however, must liberate itsel from this phenomenality, this seeming, and it can only do so by turning against it."
"The consistency of a thing perceived, of a geometrical relationship or of an idea, is arrived at only provided that I give up trying by every means to make it more explicit, and instead allow myself to come to rest in it."
"Just as we saw earlier that motor habit threw light on the particular nature of bodily space, so here habit in general enables us to understand the general synthesis of one's own body."
"The presupposition for this would be that the wall could be encountered by the chair."
"The word sun will also remind us of Plato's parable."
"The actualization of useful things at hand in taking care of them (producing them, getting them ready, readjusting them, etc.), is, however, always merely relative, in that what has been actualized still has the character of being relevant."
"The object is an object through and through, and consciousness a consciousness through and through."
"Ending does not necessarily mean fulfilling oneself."
"Naturally, we shall not go into the general problem which also arises here of the origin of language in its ideal existence and its existence in the real world grounded in utterance and documentation; but we must say a few words here about the relation between language, as a function of man within human civilization, and the world as the horizon of human existence."
"If this conception were correct, any sexual incapacity ought to amount either to the loss of certain representations or else to a weakening of the capacity for satisfaction."
"Project is the existential constitution of being in the realm of factical potentiality of being."
"And secondly because this addressing and discussing that also interprets sent, and is possible only as this."
"Here we must rehabilitate the experience of others which has been distorted by intellectualist analyses, as we shall have to rehabilitate the perceptual experience of the thing."
"The question of the origin of the artwork asks about the source of its nature."
"Will, in the sense given here, is the self assertion whose intention already posited has the world as the entirety of objects that can be produced."
"Of course we must and"
"We must now approach this new intentionality in a more direct way by examining the symmetrical notion of a form of perception, and in particular the notion of space."
"The world is not a hypothesis in that sole sense in which hypotheses have meaning for positive science for example, hypotheses about the structure of the galaxies of the Milky Way; all hypotheses in the positive sphere are hypotheses upon the ground of the hypothesis of the world, and to seek a grounding for this hypothesis in the same sense, in the positive scientific way, would be absurd."
"Furthermore, the average, vague understanding of being can be permeated by traditional theories and opinions about being in such a way that these theories, as the sources of the prevailing understanding, remain hidden."
"Wertheimer, op. cit.,."
"Here the development is sometimes a rise, sometimes a fall."
"By the foregoing considerations we have determined precisely and reliably what the critique of knowledge may and may not use."
"As existentials, attunement and understanding characterize the primordial disclosedness of being in the world."
"The Spatiality of Dasein and Space As being in the world, Dasein has always already discovered a world."
"When, by reason of the fact that they show correlated variations, we try to explain one in terms of the other, we forget, for example, that the act of visual representation, as is proved in cerebellar cases, already presupposes the same power of projection as is seen in abstract movement and in the act of pointing out, and thus we beg the question."
"Dasein exists always in one of these modes, or else in the modal indifference to them."
"the foundation at the basis of this freedom, the S'ltbiectum, must be some thing certain which satisfies the aforementioned essential requirements."
"Is not precisely this the essence or the idea of a triangle?"
"In the critical examination which is as consciousness itself, neither the examined nor the criterion passes the examination."
"We can avoid confusion by always using the interpretive expression objective presence Vorhandenheit for the term existentia, and by attributing existence as a determination of being only to Da sein."
"The ideal of universal philosophy and the process of its inner dissolution."
"The hallucination is not in the world but 'before' it, because the patient's body no longer enjoys its insertion into the system of appearances."
"We feel this precisely in our own Europe."
"This is what happened to empiricism when it replaced the physical world by a world of inner events."
"Further, it is a praxis whose aim is to elevate mankind through universal scientific reason, according to norms of truth of all forms, to transform it from the bottom up into a new humanity made capable of an absolute self responsibility on the basis of absolute theoretical insights."
"What constitutes the unwholeness in Da sein, the constant being ahead of itself, is neither a summative together which is outstanding, nor even a not yet having become accessible, but rather a not yet that any Dasein always has to be, given the being that it is."
"ovTa are a, natural things in the narrower sense, is completely ground less."
"It will not do to draw conclusions from the existence of things"
"By this term is to be understood, first of all, that phenomenon whereby a science, whether natural or humanistic, in order to achieve proper recognition today as a science is required to be capable of being institutionalized."
"But to the extent that it remains unclarified that understanding of being occurs here and what this understanding of being means ontologically, how it is possible, and that it belongs to the constitution of being of Da sein,t idealism constructs the interpretation of reality in a vacuum."
"Meaning signifies that upon which the primary projectis pro ected,"
"On the other hand, the relation to something transcendent, whether I question the existence of the transcendent object or the ability of the relation to make contact with it, still contains something that can be apprehended within the pure phenomenon."
"The first philosophical step in understanding the problem of being consists in avoiding the mython tina diegeisthai, in not telling a story, that is, not determining beings as beings by tracing them back in their origins to another being as if being had the character of a possible being."
"The picture on the wall is hanging crookedly."
"This accomplishment is not at all disparaged by the above elucidation of it as rkxvri or by the critique in terms of principle, which shows that the true meaning of these theories the meaning which is genuine in terms of their origins remained and had to remain hidden from the physicists, including the great and the greatest."
"Nietzsche writes (The Will to Power, no."
"a book which has always been reprinted one day ceases to be read, a musical work of which there were only a few copies extant is suddenly much sought after."
"That means that the I think is not something"
"What understanding of beings and what concept of truth is it that underlies the transformation of science into research?"
"In this field of inquiry, forcing things is not an arbitrary matter, but a necessity rooted in facts."
"It is still known to us in ehmen to perceive that is, to take into preservation; in gew en to become aware of and 'Wahren to keep or preserve."
"But this presupposition itself cannot be left without demonstrating how it is justified."
"The fore conception always also contained in the state ment"
"But even to be concealed is something the being can only do within the scope of the illuminated."
"Their physicality does not confuse them."
"But basically something objectively present in time, but of course unthinglike, has been posited in this characterization of the connection of life, whether one admits it or not."
"Here it becomes evident that the ancient inter pretation of the being of beings is oriented toward the world or nature in the broadest sense and that it indeed gains its understanding of being from time."
"In Philosophia, Vol."
"The disclosedness of this possibility is grounded in a making possible that anticipates."
"and so it never comes up against the question: who is thinking?"
"Culture then becomes the realization of the highest values through the care and cultivation of man's highest goods."
"Nor may the spatiality of Dasein be interpreted as a kind of imper fection that adheres to existence on account of the fatal connection of the spirit with a body."
"But it is distinguished in principle from all realism in that realism"
"What is decisive for the understanding of the ontological problem of space lies in freeing the question of the being of space from the narrowness of the accidentally available and, moreover, undifferentiated concepts of being, and, with respect to the phenomenon itself, in moving the problematic of the being of space and the various phenomenal spatialities in the direction of clarifying the possibilities of being in general."
"Only this difference in understanding must be such that it encounters the same thing which the explicated text is meditating."
"What corresponds to them in the perceived bodies themselves is then ordinarily replaced by their mathematical physical properties when it is precisely the origin of the meaning of these properties that we are engaged in investigating."
"The significance of these obscurities for the Kantian problem of synthetic judgments a priori and for his division between the synthetic judgments of pure mathematics and those of natural science will concern us in detail later see below,."
"In such expla nation the great is measured against the ordinary and average."
"Since we seek in vain in world literature for investigations that could serve as preparatory studies for us investigations which might have understood this task as that of a science in its own right (a peculiar science, to be sure, since it concerns the disparaged a, which now suddenly claims the dignity of a foundation for science,."
"For it is re<U+FB02>ection which objectifies points of view of perspectives, whereas when I perceive, I belong, through my point of view, to the world as a whole, nor am I even aware of the limits of my visual field."
"Thus the explicit idea of world as such is a prerequisite for the order of world images."
"It follows that psychological induction is not a mere inventory of facts."
"another  of those who are employed for the same thing often thrives only on mistrust."
"Hence only the thinkers can help us in the attempt to translate the saying of this early thinker."
"Smoothness is not a collection of similar pressures, but the way in which a surface utilizes the time occupied by our tactile exploration or modulates the movement of our hand."
"has no part in the discursive life of man."
"Only in terms of an ori entation toward the ontological structure thus understood, can life as a constitution of being be defined a priori in a privative way."
"The origin of the arising of the present, that is, of being entangled in lostness, is the primordial, authentic temporality itself that makes possible thrown being toward death."
"On the contrary, time is the foundation and measure of our spontaneity, and the power of out running and of 'nihilating' ('n antiser') which dwells within us and is ourselves, is itself given to us with temporality and life."
"In general, in the natural attitude it is we who are the persons carrying out the investigation; and thus, already in advance, it is we who live alongside one another and with one another."
"For it remains difficult. '"
"The decisive moment in the essence of experience is when the new, true object arises in it for consciousness."
"How is the ontological possibility of an authentic being toward death to be characterized objectively, if, in the end, Dasein is never authentically related to its end, or if this authentic being must remain concealed from others in accordance with its mean ing?"
"Io this end, a pictorial presentation suffices."
"In the thoughtful use of the tenns ov and a being, the first thing that has been presupposed is that we arc in fact"
"But a journey, for example, can also be imminent for Da sein, or a discussion with others, or a renouncing something which Dasein itself can be its own possibilities of being which are founded in being with others."
"However these questions are to be answered in what follows, or are to be asked primordially, we must first understand that tem porality, as ecstatic and horizonal, first temporalizes something like world time that constitutes a within timeness of things at hand and objectively present."
"But even the categories of the prescientific world, of the straightforwardly intuited world those of corporeity (i.e., the identity of persisting bodies supposedly found in immediate, experiencing intuition), as well as the supposedly experienced identity of the person are nothing but fictions."
"Once the categorial operation is performed, the appearance of the word which completes the Gelb and Goldstein, ber Farbennamenamnesie."
"The there is equiprimordially disclosed by mood, or else closed off."
"What has been handed down hands over to obviousness; it bars access to those original wellsprings out of which the tra ditional categories and concepts were in part genuinely drawn."
"Yet, along with the essence of each of these, the essence of this origin remains hidden."
"The transformation is so complete that one has the impression of seeing a fresh disc."
"It must be a necessary progress."
"At the outset we may not simply assume that some example of knowledge is indeed knowledge, otherwise we would have no possible or what comes to the same thing meaningful goal."
"The mentes,.e., the res cogitantes, are (I'hc.o;is the primariae Mundi tmitates."
"kama ouranon poiei menontos aianos en"
"To express it more fully: the historical surrounding world of the Greeks is not the objective world in our sense"
"He thus saw everything from the point of view of universal thought which abolished equally his experience of others and his experience of himself."
"When a square is divided into four, if the parts are brought together in the correct way, they must make a square.'"
"Which existential constitution of Dasein becomes intelligible in the phenomenon of curiosity' I.v Being in the world is initially absorbed in the world taken care of."
"is the God of Spinoza', for the distinction between form and matter can no longer be given any ultimate value, therefore it is not clear how the mind, re<U+FB02>ecting on itself, could in the last analysis find any meaning in the notion of receptivity, or think of itself in any valid way as undergoing modification: for if it is the mind itself which thinks of itself as affected, it does not think of itself thus, since it affirms its activity afresh simultaneously with appearing to restrict it: in so far, on the other hand, as it is the mind which places itself in the world, it is not there, and the self positing is an illusion."
"I live then in possible experiences, in possible perceptions and possible perceptual judgments."
"This brings us back to the dualism of consciousness and body which we thought we had left behind when we introduced the notion of Bewegungsentwurf or motor project."
"The transcendental universality of the phenomenon of care and all fundamental existentials has, on the other hand, that broad scope through which the basis is given on which every antic interpretation of Dasein with a worldview moves, whether it understands Dasein as the cares of life and need, or in an opposite manner."
"To start from the opinions of natural consciousness marks the style and coherence of the paragraphs of the piece."
"rpretation articulates this until then"
"The disparity between retinal images, and the number of intermediate objects do not act either as mere objective causes producing from outside my perception of distance, or as demonstrative reasons for it."
"they are extra mental?"
"But knowing neither first creates a commercium of the subject with the world, nor does this commercium originate from an effect of the world on a subject."
"it understands having been in the world in terms of its possibility, and just presents it."
"The age is desolate not only because God is dead but also because mortals scarcely know or are capable even of their own mortality."
"For example, 'consciousness' is not for the Vienna Circle identifiable with what we are."
"The demand here is not an overriding one, simply because it is a question of an ambiguous figure, but, in a normal visual field, the segregation of planes and outlines is irresistible; for example, when I walk along an avenue, I cannot bring myself to see the spaces between the trees as thing and the trees themselves as a background."
"Being toward death is the anticipation of a potentiality of being of that being whose kind of being is anticipation itself."
"In the fullest sense, things are not just natural things."
"the thrust of time is nothing but the transition from one present to another."
"It has often enough been pointed out that the Greek.'i (who understood a thing or two about works of art) used the same word, 'I, for both handicraft and art, and used the same term, Texvi, to refer to both the craftsman and the artist."
"To make this comprehensible we may remark, by way of preliminary, that the presentation of untrue consciousness in its untruth is not a merely negative process."
"The latter can be a goal that we have elected for ourselves as a life vocation, to be thedominant one in our active life, or it can be one that we have somehow drifted into through our upbringing."
"These are factually given with the specific for mulation of the question and the prescribed demarcation of the possible field of investigation."
", of carrying it out."
"Likewise we consider the true sense of an artwork in general and the specific sense of a particular artwork."
"lt does examine itself critically in that it is what it is as a result of the comparison of objectivity and object."
"But since the nature of this being is existence, the existential statement that Dasein is its disclosure means at the same time that the being about which these beings are concerned in their being is to be their there."
"Taking up our abode in a certain setting of colour, with the transposition which it entails, is a bodily operation, and I cannot effect it otherwise than by entering into the new atmosphere, because my body is my general power of inhabiting all the environments which the world contains, the key to all those transpositions and equivalences which keep it constant."
"This world may remain undivided between my perception and his, the self which perceives is in no particularly privileged position which rules out a perceived self; both are, not cogitationes shut up in their own immanence, but beings which are outrun by their world, and which consequently may well be outrun by each other."
"When we take care of things, we are subordinate to the in order to constitutive for the actual useful thing in our association with it."
"nowhere do U'efind such experimce ofbeing itself."
"Thus the manner of definition of beings which has its justification within limits the definition of traditional logic which is itself rooted in ancient ontology cannot be applied to being."
"Even Hume says (and how could he avoid impressions of, perceptions of, trees, stones, etc.; and so does psychology to the present day."
"But with this possible understanding of Dasein as something objectively present, and only objectively present, we may not attribute to Dasein its own kind of objective presence."
"It is the pathway to science."
"If it is a matter of complex action, it calls up the 'kinaesthetic memory of the component movements: as movement is composed of partial acts, the project of movement is composed of the representation of its parts or the intermediate aims: it is this representation that we have called the formula of movement' ("
"this does a all mean that the most readily available pre ontological interpre taion of its own eing could be adopted as an adequate guideline, as though this understanding of being had to arise from a thematically ontological reflection on the most proper constitution of its being."
"It is not until the paragraph in which the decisive word experience comes that Hegel expresses it explicitly."
"But if ending, as dying, constitutes the totality of Da sein, the being of the totality itself must be conceived as an existential phe nomenon of my own Da sein."
"The possibility of knowledge has become a riddle in every respect."
"But an authentic potentiality of being is attested by conscience."
"As phenomena they have long been familiar ontically under the terms of affects and feelings and have always been considered in phi losophy."
"Schneider's conception of number is affected only in so far as it implies, to a great extent, the power of laying out a past in order to move towards a future."
"And like any psychological fact, it can be described with respect to its kinds and forms of interconnection; its genetic relations can be investigated."
"Natural consciousness is the historically existing spirit extant in its time."
"But the world pregiven in every person, valid for every human culture at every time and for every individual human being in his particular praxis"
"Now of course knowledge is not as simple a matter as red."
"Beings, meanwhile, have appeared in the character of consciousness; in representation, they are as phenomena."
"Its own opinion constantly betrays its restlessness at being tom inex orably into the beyond itself."
"We can understand a phrase or at least give it a certain meaning by going from the whole to the parts."
"Dying is levelled down to an event which does concern Da sein, but which belongs to no one in particular."
", the sense given to it by empathy, the understanding of the expression."
"the cogito to itself."
"What Burnet says about Greek quotation in general speaks in favour of excluding what precedes these words."
"existing is always factical."
"Is there, in view of their constant successes, really a crisis of the sciences?"
"It raises the threat of a single endless winter."
"However, the ontological analytic which makes use of such statements must have fundamental reservations about them."
"For things to be given for them to prese themselves (to be represented) as such in these phenomena."
"It becomes the interpretation that frees Dasein for its most extreme possibility of existence."
"section, Dasein had to be contrasted with a way of being in space which we call insideness."
"In the tide Science of the Experience of Consciousness, the word ex perience is emphasized in the center."
"And finally the sense of sight is a certain preparation for the logic, and for the world, of colours."
"The reversal, in which watching turns itself toward the phenomena as phe nomenal, brings seeing onto the route which science goes."
"Perceptual disturbances, from this point of view, could be only sensory deficiencies or gnosic disturbances."
"Rather, no conceivable human being, no matter how different we imagine him to be, could ever experience a world in manners of givenness which differ from the incessantly mobile relativity we have delineated in general terms,.e., as a world pregiven to him in his conscious life and in community with fellow human beings."
"Falling prey is an ontologi cal concept of motion."
"But at the same time these steps need to be guided by the possible fore sight of the kind of being of the being in question."
"As the self opening it will tolerate nothing closed."
"The fundamental certainty is the me cogitnrc me.r<U+FFFD>"
"The seer is who has already seen the totality what presences in its presencing."
"At this point, the pure appearance of the absolute coincides with its essence."
"We the two equiprimordi ally cons titu tive ways to the there in attunement and understanding."
"In the end, the universal personal science itself seems to transform itself into the all encompassing science, to resolve itself into a universal philosophy, and eidetically into a universal ontology."
"Although it always becomes certain in resolution, the indefiniteness of one's own potentiality of being, completely only in being toward death."
"The Greek practice of weaving quotation into the text speaks against this."
"The progres sion of spirit actualizing itself in history contains a principle of exclu sion."
"On the other hand, the possibility of being surprised lies in the fact that the making present that awaits a thing does not await something else that stands in a possible context of relevance with the former."
"It would consist in a transformation of the thematic consciousness of the world which breaks through the normality of straightforward living."
"The passage of one present to the next is not a thing which I conceive, nor do I see it as an onlooker"
"Thus attention is neither an association of images, nor the return to itself of thought already in control of its objects, but the active constitution of a new object which makes explicit and articulate what was until then presented as no more than an indeterminate horizon."
"And it is even necessary, for my tour of inspection of the cube to warrant the judgement: 'here is a cube', that my movements themselves be located in objective space and, far from its being the case that the experience of my own movement conditions the position of an object, it is, on the contrary, by conceiving my body itself as a mobile object that I am able to interpret perceptual appearance and construct the cube as it truly is."
"In thrownness the fact is revealed that Da sein, as my Dasein and this Da sein, is always already in a definite world and together with a definite range of definite innerworldly beings."
"Insofar as they are, extensio."
"Because thinking in tenns of values is grounded in the metaphysics of the will to power, Ni .sche's interpretation of nihilism, as the process of devaluing the highest values and revaluing all values, is a metaphysical interpretation; it is metaphysical, in fact, in the sense of the metaphysics of the will to power."
"The Bergsonian dualism of habit memory and pure recollection does not account for the near presence of the words I know: they are behind me, like things behind my back, or like the city's horizon round my house, I reckon with them or rely on them, but without having any 'verbal image'."
"But in this case being not only as the being of human being (Existenz)."
"lo the createdness of the work the preservers belong just as essentially as the creators."
"It is said that sounds or colours belong to a sensory field, because sounds once perceived can be followed only by other sounds, or by silence, which is not an auditory nothingness, but the absence of sounds, and which, therefore, keeps us in contact with the being of sound."
"The essence or the criterion would lie in us; and what was to he compared with this criterion, and decided upon as a result of this comparison, would not necessarily have to recognize that criterion."
"(Proust, Swann's Way, trans."
"In this fundamental certainty, man becomes certain that, as the representer of all representation, the setter before of all Ti setting before, and therewith the realm of all representedness and hence of all certainty and truth, he is securely established which means, now, that he is."
"If a fountain pen is shown to the patient, in such a way that the clip is not seen, the phases of recognition are as follows. '"
"Every understanding has its mood."
"Every dictionary gives us the fullest information to the effect that eT means to be, ea is, ov being, and Ta a the being."
"Upon closer examination, this turns out to be ambiguous."
"And ethnology already moves in certain preliminary concepts and interpretations of human being in general, beginning with the initial collection of its materials, its findings and elaborations."
"That in the face of which one has Ang."
"It is true that external objects too never turn one of their sides to me without hiding the rest, but I can at least freely choose the side which they are to present to me."
"Similarly, when something at hand is missing whose everyday presence was so much a matter of course that we never even paid attention to it, this constitutes a breach in the context of references discovered in our circumspection."
"All this happens, however, in the midst of beings which arise of their own accord, in the midst of flvcrts."
"But this point needs to be secured by the epistemological reduction,"
"The naivete of the first epoche had the result, as we immediately saw, that I, the philosophizing ego, in taking myself as functioning I, as ego pole of transcendental acts and accomplishments, proceeded in one leap and without grounding, that is, illegitimately, to attribute to the mankind in which I find myself the same transformation into functioning transcendental subjectivity which I had carried out alone in myself."
"We feel that it is put together by design, that in it significance precedes existence and clothes itself in only the minimum of matter necessary for its communication."
"If we admit 'sensation' in the classical sense, the meaning of that which is sensed can be found only in further sensations, actual or virtual."
"It can refer to the fact that the known object is not really reell contained in the act of knowing."
"However; that means that we must first unpack the question of this being's potentiality for being a whole."
"The reso luteness toward itself first brings Dasein to the possibility of letting the others who are with it be in their ownmost potentiality of being, and also discloses that potentiality in concern which leaps ahead and frees."
"Concealment remains, however, the characteristic of the refusal that keeps to itself."
"For example, there are various individual things of experience at any given time; I focus on one of them."
"In a letter dated November"
"It will perhaps be said that this is so only for me; in itself the lamp which I perceive exists at the same time as I do, that distance is between simultaneous objects, and that this simultaneity is contained in the very meaning of perception."
"Sche concludes his characterization of the essence of value with the word becoming, that final word points to the essential realm where values and the dispensation of value generally and uniquely belong. '"
"But obviously there is nothing by way of objective validity about these statements."
"Otherwise it would be true like an idea and not present like a thing."
"The logician is right when he demands some constitution of the 'dynamic phenomenon' itself, and a description of movement in terms of the moving object which we follow through its course"
"There is nothing to be seen beyond our horizons, but other landscapes and still other horizons, and nothing inside the thing but other smaller things."
"To do this, one must completely disregard or just not see the existential constitution of being in."
"I, this man, and likewise other men these signify, respectively, a self apperception and an apperception of others which are transcendental acquisitions involving everything psychic that belongs to them, acquisitions which flowingly change in their particularity through transcendental functions which are."
"Rather, we are investigating what exists and remains valid whether anything like objcctive reality exists or not, whether the positing of such transcendence is justified or not."
"With this decision willing is already delivered into the service of total organization."
"We shall not succeed in understanding perception unless we take into account a colour function which may remain even when the qualitative appearance is modified."
"Not at all, for to say that motion is a structural phenomenon"
"If I stand holding my pipe in my closed hand, the position of my hand is not determined discursively by the angle which it makes with my forearm, and my forearm with my upper arm, and my upper arm with my trunk, and my trunk with the ground."
"Dilthey's investigations are only now becoming accessible in their complete scope, if we are to make them our own we need the constancy and concretion of coming to terms with them in principle."
"It is all the more true, then, that during periods of depression, economic factors are effective only to the extent that they are lived and taken up by a human subject, wrapped up, that is, in ideological shreds by a process amounting to selfdeception, or rather permanent equivocation, which is yet part of history and has a weight of its own."
"Although we are unable to predict its course, we are possessed by it."
"Wandelt sich rasch auch die Welt wie Wolkengcstalten, a lies Vollendete.illt heim zum Uralten."
"Thus all we need to do, in order to be relieved of the tedious effort of making our own inquiry into the thingliness of the thing, is to grasp explicitly this traditional knowledge of the thing."
"The genitives that enter into the title are neither exclusively subjective nor exclusively objective, and certainly no mere coupling of the two."
"In the Meditnti(mes de the liberation of man to his new freedom is brought to that which grounds it."
"As for objects not in sight, he is unable to form any visual image of them."
"Our inquiry is thus forced into a purely The relation of Dasein to death; death itself its arrival entrance, dying."
"These disjoined phenomena do not admit of precise causal connections among themselves."
"No philosophy can afford to be ignorant of the problem of finitude under pain of failing to understand itself as philosophy; no analysis of perception can afford not to conceive perception as a totally original phenomenon under pain of misconceiving itself as analysis, and the infinite thought discovered as immanent in perception would not be the culminating point of consciousness, but on the contrary a form of unconsciousness."
"The rationalist's dilemma: either the free act is possible, or it is not either the event originates in me or is imposed on me from outside, does not apply to our relations with the world and with our past."
"(Proust, Swann's Way, I, trans."
"We do not therefore need to follow Kant in his deduction of one single space."
"In the sentence Consciousness, however, is for itself its own concept the stress actually falls on the is."
"The Pythagorean theorem, indeed all of geometry, exists only once, no matter how often or even in what language it may be expressed."
"Unless there are cycles of behaviour, open situations requiring a certain completion and capable of constituting a background to either a confirmatory or transformatory decision, we never experience freedom."
"What is privileged in consciousness as the horizon of civilization and as the linguistic community is mature normal civilization (taking away the abnormal and the world of children)."
"They may be reduced to three."
"Consciousness itself is now moving more clearly into the light in which it may be essentially seen."
"(In the empirical sphere the principle of the excluded middle does not hold.)"
"Thus a death motivates my journey because it is a situation in which my presence is required, whether to console a bereaved family or to 'pay one's last respects' to the deceased, and, by deciding to make the journey, I validate this motive which puts itself forward, and I take up the situation."
"As taking care in calculating, planning, preparing ahead, and preventing, it always already says, whether audibly or not: then. ."
"But before the formula of the new dance can incorporate certain elements of general motility, it must first have had, as it were, the stamp of movement set upon it."
"Sizes must be judged together."
"The thing is the 'I.: alafu, that which, in the senses belonging to sensibility, is perceptible by means of sensations."
"But already when we ask, What is being'?"
"This mere explanation of the word, however, does not bring us to its matter in the saying unless we are already, as with a Kia and thinking out of the matter which comes to language in the saying."
"For what precisely is meant by saying that the world existed before any human consciousness?"
"However, when we subtract the alteration that was caused by the means, and therefore do not apply the means, it also does not mediate to us the remainder of the unaltered absolute."
"essence of the not in Of course, ontology and logic have expected much of the not, and thus at times made its possibilities visible without revealing it itself ontologically."
"On the other hand, the existence of a historian who only edits sources may be deter mined by an authentic historicity."
"What is it that phe nomenology is to let be seen What is it that is to be called phe nomenon in a distinctive sense?"
"In such heedful fleeing lies the flight from death, that is, a looking away from the end of being in the world!"
"Initially this means an immense extension of the possibilities of the arithmetic thinking that was handed down in old, primitive forms."
"It is of no help to us that there is an absolute givenness to be found"
"In this reckoning, the real making public time temporalizes itself that must say that the thrownness of Dasein is the reason why there is public time."
"It gets circu lated in a vacuous fashion, loses its autochthony, and becomes a free floating thesis."
"This connection is sein, is not only historical."
"In its project it is revealed as something thrown."
"various manifestations."
"Mere, here, means, first of all, the pure thing which is simply a thing and nothing more."
"I begin to understand a philosophy by feeling my way into its existential manner, by reproducing the tone and accent of the philosopher."
"Loss of power to grasp meaning of written or printed words and sentences: word blindness (Translator's note)."
"The seer is outside himself in the single breadth of the presence of that which is in every way present."
"But how could I not have thought about it?"
"In contrast, ov and a look like rootless participial endings, words as though, by themselves, they specifically designate what we must think in those word forms called by grammarians."
"Freudian proof much nearer to metaphysical deduction than to scientific explanation. ."
"Often he gives them the name being, again true to the manner of speaking used by metaphysical thinking."
"Here we soon see, as another a priori, that self consciousness and consciousness of others are inseparable; it is unthinkable, and not merely contrary to fact, that I be man in a world without being a man."
"But our hope for true rationality,.e., for true insight, is disappointed here as elsewhere."
"The explicated judgment becomes an ideal object capable of being passed on."
"Bodily space can be distinguished from external space and envelop its parts instead of spreading them out, because it is the darkness needed in the theatre to show up the performance, the background of somnolence or reserve of vague power against which the gesture and its aim stand out,"
"If discourse,the articulation of the intelligibility of the there, is the primordial existential of disclosedness and if dis closedness is primarily constituted bybeing in the world,discourse must also essentially have a specificallyworldly mode of being."
"The origin of dualism in the prevailing exemplary role of natural science."
"The eleventh paragraph asks directly what is the object of the inquiry by the presentation of phenomenal knowledge."
"The contribution made from the experiences of others had the effect of dimming the structure of his own, and conversely, having lost contact with himself he became blind to the behaviour of others."
"Uncanniness brings this being face to face with its undisguised nullity, which belongs to the possibility of its ownmost potentiality of being."
"the name taken over from metaphysics a<U+FFFD> being rynl for the diffrm/Ce."
"Indeed, confirmation is to be found for temporality in all the essential strUctures of the fundamental constitution of Da sein."
"At this point philosophy, as an infinite task, would have arrived at its apodictic beginning, its horizon of apodictic forward movement."
"Thus the task arises of placing Dasein as a whole in our fore hav ing."
"Obviously it can only be that which is present in the light that illuminates his sight."
"This is a fact, even if it is covered over when the time is read off."
"Thus the crisis of philosophy implies the crisis of all modern sciences as members of the philosophical universe: at first a latent, then a more and more prominent crisis of European humanity itself in respect to the total meaningfulness of its cultural life, its total Existenz."
"Thus to disclose never means anything like obtaining something indirectly by infer ence."
"The surrounding world of nature is also at hand in the usage of clock equipment which is at first inconspic uously at hand."
"Whether in use or out of use, they are no longer what they were."
"On the track to what is whole, Rilke arrives at the poetical question: when may song be that sings essentially?"
"In order for useful things at hand to be encountered in their character of being in itself' in our everyday taking care of the surrounding world, the references and referential contexts in which circumspection is absorbed must remain nonthematic for that cir cumspection and all the more so for a noncircumspect, thematic abstract comprehension."
"(Da sein understanding the word in the sense of the ecstatic region of the disclosure and concealment of being."
"Are we not faced with the dilemma of an absolute consciousness on the one hand and endless doubt on the other?"
"He is the sooth sayer hr sa."
"With regard to what do intellectus and res agree?"
"We are not certain whether its claim speaks to our essence."
"Heidegger transfers it to time: '"
"And since the thingliness of the latter is based upon natural thingliness, the being of natural things, nature as such, is the primary theme."
"But if we are to know what we are talking about, we must choose and, in the last analysis, assign it to the sphere of the constituted object."
"The project of detennining the work beinlf of the work purely from the work itself proves to be incapable of completion. '"
"At first sight, there is nothing in common between these physiological hypotheses and the intellectualist conception."
"Therefore, non objectively?"
"The whole significance of our life from which theoretical significance is merely extracted would be different if we were sightless."
"When he is lying motionless on a couch, the body still presents itself against the background of the former space, and, as far as the unseen parts of the body are concerned, right and left preserve their former localization to the end of the experiment."
"clearly does not understand it until he can say: '"
"and we must understand how, paradoxically, there is for us an in itself."
"They cannot be grounded because no grounding reaches into their ground."
"With death, Dasein stands before itself in its ownmost potentiality of being."
"In this solitude I am not a single individual who has somehow willfully cut himself off from the society of mankind, perhaps even for theoretical reasons, or who is cut off by accident, as in a shipwreck, but who nevertheless knows that he still belongs to that society."
"The variations are accomplished in the transition to the pure in general,'' to the general forms of possibilities and the essential possibilities and essential impossibilities belonging to them."
"When philosophy as knowledge of the absolute takes seriously what it is as such knowledge, then it is by that fact alone"
"At bottom Yorck is demanding a logic preceding the sciences and guiding them as did Platonic and Aristotelian logic, and this demand includes the task of developing, positively and radically, the various cat egorial structures of the being that is nature and the being that is history (Da sein)."
"The relations of sentient to sensible are comparable with those of the sleeper to his slumber: sleep comes when a certain voluntary attitude suddenly Werner, Untersuchungen ber Empfindung und Empfinden, I,."
"Other patients, on the other hand, lose their world as soon as its contents are removed; they abandon their habitual way of life even before it has become impossible, making themselves into premature invalids and breaking their vital contact with the world before losing sensory contact with it."
"Such rest is, therefore, a state of extreme agitation presupposing that the kind of motion in question requires such rest."
"Loss of voice as a situation may be compared to sleep: I lie down in bed, on my left side, with my knees drawn up; I close my eyes and breathe slowly, putting my plans out of my mind."
"rper means a body in the geometric or physical sense; Leib refers to the body of a person or animal."
"We are led to conceive freedom as a choice continually remade as long as we do not bring in the notion of a generalized or natural time."
"for example Head, On disturbances of sensation with especial reference to the pain of visceral disease."
"They do not result from some shortcoming of our powers of knowledge or lack of a suitable way of conceiving a lack seemingly easy to remedy."
"But logical concepts are not concepts taken from what is simply intuitive; they arise through a rational activity proper to them, the development of ideas, exact development of concepts,.g."
"In this having seen Ar oD 'o:G there is always something more in play than the completion of an optical process."
"With this predominantly circumspect thematization of the spatial ity of the surrounding world, space in itself already comes to view in a way."
"But then what is sum moning to being guilty supposed to mean?.n"
"Whatever else enters the stage as apodictic, as, for example, mathematical axioms, certainly does leave open possibilities of doubt and thus also the conceivability of their being false."
"situation, for my intention initiates a movement through space merely to attain the objective initially given at the starting point; there is as it were a germ of movement which only secondarily develops into an objective movement."
"All interpretation is grounded in understanding."
", how can a general idea of the I be formed, how can I speak of an I other than my own, how can I know that there are other"
"rpreting existentiality as care and distinguishing it from reality do not, however, signal the end of the existential analytic, but only lets the maze of prob lems in the question of being and its possible modes, and the meaning of such modifications, emerge more sharply."
"But this pre scription is existentially possible through the fact that Dasein as understanding being with can listen to others."
"The willing of those who risk more is the willingness of those who say more, who arc resolute ent schlossen"
"This individualizing is a way in which the there is disclosed for existence."
"The horizon exposition to which we recurred must not bog down in vague, superficial talk; it must itself arrive at its own sort of scientific discipline."
"Looking at the clock is grounded in and guided by taking time for oneself."
"In place of real praxis that of action or that of considering empirical possibilities having to do with actual and really .e., physically possible empirical bodies we now have an ideal praxis of pure thinking which remains exclusively within the realm of pure limit shapes."
"Kant did not see the phenomenon of world and was consistent enough to keep the rep resentations at a distance from the a priori content of the I isolated subjectthat thus the I again was forced back an Presence constant accompanying."
"This constitution of being is not first derived from the fact that besides the being which has the character of Dasein there are other eings which are objctively present and meet up with it."
"But the nothing, as the nothing of beings is the keenest opponent of mere negating."
"Far from its being the case that my freedom is always unattended, it is never without an accomplice, and its power of perpetually tearing itself away finds its fulcrum in my universal commitment in the world."
"To take for granted that we have a true idea is to believe in uncritical perception."
"The poeticizing projection comes out of nothing in the sense that it never derives its gift from what is familiar and already here."
"Why did self criticism and reciprocal criticism among those still animated by the old spirit not lead to the integration of compelling cognitive accomplishments into the unity of an edifice of knowledge which grew from generation to generation, which merely needed perfecting through constantly renewed criticism, correction, and methodical refinement?"
"In face of the ambiguity of facts one must abandon the mere statistical noting down of coincidences, and try to 'understand' the relation which they reveal."
"This is so obvious that we do not take any notice of it at all; still less do we know anything about it explicitly."
"That in which something appears means that in which something makes itself known, that is, does not show itself; in the expression without itself being an 'appearance' appearance means the self showing."
"Everything gained by a struggle becomes something to be manipulated."
"Extending one side, drawing through the apex a line parallel to the opposite side, introducing the theorem relating to parallels and their secant, these steps are possible only if I consider the triangle itself as it is drawn on the paper, on the blackboard or in the imagination, with its physiognomy, the concrete arrangement of its lines, in short its Gestalt."
"Thus nowhere is the temptation so great to slide into logical aporetics and disputation, priding oneself on one's scientific discipline, while the actual substratum of the work, the phenomena themselves, is forever lost from view."
"The history of being begins nece."
"The meaning of a sentence appears intelligible throughout, detachable from the sentence and finitely self subsistent in an intelligible world, because we presuppose as given all those exchanges, owed to the history of the language, which contribute to determining its sense."
"Acts are carried out, the person carries them out."
"Clari fying matters, the Greeks called the presently present Ta Tape a; rap means alongside,''"
"when my gaze meets another gaze, I re enact the alien existence in a sort of re<U+FB02>ection."
"To any truth, there belongs a corresponding holding for true."
"For it research in the sphere of pure evidence, and, moreover, it is research into essences."
"In the realm of imagination, I have no sooner formed the intention of seeing than I already believe that I have seen."
"Everyday familiarity collapses."
"Thus recently Scheler took up Dilthey's interpretation of reality."
"This protection is for the sake of providing shelter for Da sein, that is, for the sake of a possibility of its being."
"The existential constitution of this evasion becomes clear in the phenomenon of entanglement."
"We killed him, that is, God."
"One can, as Husserl does, represent this phenomenon diagrammatically."
"Blinded, it puts all possibilities in the services of the predilection."
"This clarification of a reveals that within Greek experience, too, that which is present remains ambiguous, indeed necessarily so."
"Nor does anticipatory resoluteness stem from ide alistic expectations soaring above existence and its possibilities; but arises from the sober understanding of the basic factical possibilities of Da sein."
"into unconcealment is, in manner: something brought forth."
"We do not attribute these appearances to the object itself, but regard them as an accidental feature of our relations with it, and not as being of it."
"Descartes can only he overcome through the overcoming of that which he himself founded, through the overcoming, namely, of modern (and that means, at the same time, Western) metaphysics."
"Now the body is essentially an expressive space."
"Man becomes the referential center of be ings as such."
"Thus consciousness is comparison and then, again, it is not."
"Do not all goals, whether they are practical in some other, extrascientific sense or are practical under the title of theory, belong eo ipso to the unity of the life world, if only we take the latter in its complete and full concreteness?"
"This primary knowledge may not contain anything that bespeaks of the unclarity and dubitability that otherwise lends to knowledge the character of being enigmatic and problematic so that we are finally put in the embarrassing position of having to say that all knowledge as such is a problem, something that is incomprehensible, in need of clarification and doubtful in all its claims."
"When red and green, presented together, give the result grey, it is conceded that the central combination of stimuli can immediately give rise to a different sensation from what the objective stimuli would lead us to expect."
"But why is it that, in interpreting a historical age, we inquire into its world picture?"
"His historical picture, in part made by himself and in part taken over, his poetic invention of the history of philosophy/' has not and does not remain fixed that he knows; and yet every invention serves him and can serve him in understanding himself and his aim, and his own aim in relation to that of others and their inventions/' their aims, and finally what it is that is common to all, which makes up philosophy as such as a unitary telos and makes the systems attempts at its fulfillment for us all, for us who are at the same time in company with the philosophers of the past (in the various ways we have been able to invent them for ourselves)."
"This clearedness first makes possible any illumination or throwing light, any perceiving, seeing, or having of something."
"can be beaten down through the insertion of the I into the we."
"All this will be confirmed as I now leave the reference to Kant behind and attempt to show, to those willing to understand, one of the paths I have actually taken; as a path actually taken, it offers itself as one that can at any time be taken again."
"But if the analysis of the end and totality of Dasein takes an ori entation of such broad scope, this nevertheless cannot mean that the existential concepts of end and totality are to be gained by way of a deduction."
"But because truth has this meaning, and because logos is a spe cific mode of letting something be seen, logos simply may not be acclaimed as the primary place of truth."
"What has disappeared from the patient is his power of projecting before himself a sexual world, of putting himself in an erotic situation, or, once such a situation is stumbled upon, of maintaining it or following it through to complete satisfaction."
"With the dis coveredness of beings, they show themselves precisely as the beings that previously were."
"We ask, merely, whether in these correct translations correct thinking is occurring."
"Therefore it has its criterion in it."
"Even the sides oflife that are turned away from us"
"It is evident in advance that this new sort of construction."
"Geisteswissenschaftler Geschichte sozusagen als Gemeinschafteserinnerung in thematischen Gang bringen."
"Yet since freedom does not tolerate any motive in its path, my habitual being in the world is at each moment equally precarious, and the complexes which I have allowed to develop over the years always remain equally soothing, and the free act can with no difficulty blow them sky high."
"Both the undisturbed equanimity and the inhibited discontent of everyday heedfulness, the way we slide over from one to another or slip into bad moods, are by no means nothing ontologically although these phenomena remain unnoticed as what is supposedly the mos indiffer ent and fleeting in Da sein."
"the 'sensation' as a unit of experience sides, without realizing that the perceived, by its nature, admits of the ambiguous, the shifting, and is shaped by its context."
"Indeed, our naive procedure was not quite correct, and this is because we have forgotten ourselves, the philosophizers; or, to put it more distinctly"
"Indeed, our lack of clarity with regard to the sense or essence of knowledge requires a science of knowledge, a science that dedicates itself solely to getting clear on the essence of knowledge."
"Ta vra, the so called being, in no way means natural things."
"The first is the epoch in which the demand of apodicticity is discovered and for the first time lucidly taken up into the will by a historically individualized philosophical personality: that is, Descartes, as the initiator of the historical epoch of the modern period."
"Val ry, Le Cimeti re marin."
"The act whereby I am conscious of something must itself be apprehended at the very moment at which it is carried out, otherwise it would collapse."
"World is used as an ontic concept and signifies the totality of beings which can be objectively present within the world."
"What is obviously also completely forgotten is that natural science (like all science generally) is a title for spiritual accomplishments, namely, those of the natural scientists working together; as such they belong, after all, like all spiritual occur rences, to the region of what is to be explained by humanistic disciplines."
"In order to make it complete, the symmetrical perspective of protections would have to be added."
"And why should we believe this feeling?"
"Once they have become 'habitual', they set up between the old and the new directions, stable 'associations' which do away with the former in favour of the latter, these beingdominant by reason of their visual origin."
"However, as soon as we reflect on the being historical essence of nihilism, then something discomfiting is added to our merely hearing a discordant note."
"The Reflection Must Be Historical."
"The existential temporal analysis of Dasein requires in its tum a new retrieve in the context of a fundamental discussion of the concept of being."
", what had already turned away from it; philosophy, however, in moving past natural consciousness, nonetheless docs not neglect it but rather concerns itself exclusively with it in order to be the route through which the truth of consciousness appears."
"Of course we can, as has been shown, also thematically reflect on this world whole and grasp its causal style."
"Only now has even a faint light come into the darkness of the question that we had wanted to put to Nietzsche when we were listening to the passage about the madman"
"The unity of the world crumbles and falls asunder under the in<U+FB02>uence of that temporal and spatial distance which the ideal unity traverses while remaining (in theory) unimpaired."
", that is, he has the consciousness of being with this object in a quite immediate way and of always 'living and being able to do things through it as the affected ego and the ego holding sway."
"If in our analysis of having to do with things, we aim at what we have to do with, our existent being together with beings taken care of must be given an orientation not toward an isolated useful thing at hand, but rather toward the totality of useful things."
"Psychoanalytical treatment does not bring about its cure by producing Fink, Vergegenw rtigung und Bild,."
"Truth is un truth in that there belongs to it the originating region /erktmftsbereich of the"
"Dasein hears because it understands."
"How is it that I, or all of us, constantly have world consciousness?"
"This incarnate significance is the central phenomenon of which body and mind, sign and significance are abstract moments."
"As Scheler so rightly declares, reasoning by analogy presupposes what it is called on to explain."
"Preser vation of the work does not individualize human beings down to their expe riences but rather, brings them into a belonging to the truth that happens in Miteinnnder sein as the historical standing out of human existence"
"A style is a certain manner of dealing with situations, which I identify or understand in an individual or in a writer, by taking over that manner myself in a sort of imitative way, even though I may be quite unable to define it: and in any case a definition, correct though it may be, never provides an exact equivalent, and is never of interest to any"
"Again, what we say here applies only to first hand speech that of the child uttering its first word, of the lover revealing his feelings, of the 'first man who spoke', or of the writer and philosopher who reawaken primordial experience anterior to all traditions."
"The presentation of phenomenal knowledge is not a route which natural consciousness can take."
"After Hegel, two positions within the general view of philosophy before Aristotle and Plato became firmly established."
"There is in his whole conduct something meticulous and serious which derives from the fact that he is incapable of play acting."
"Anticipation discloses to existence that its extreme inmost possibility lies in giving itself up and thus shatters all one's clinging to whatever existence one has reached."
"I know, in the presence of which that which has been seen is present."
"It does not stand back from its noemata, but on the other hand, if it passed away with each one of them, and if it did not tentatively suggest objectification, it would not crystallize itself in myths."
"But now this talk of the widest compass has nothing very clear to tell us when we try to think of it as the entirety of beings, and of encompassing as the being of beings."
"It runs: leave all your notions and opinions about phenomena aside."
"Art is historical and, as historical, is the creative preser vation of truth in the work."
"But what has happened, in the ground of this history, with beings?"
"Obviously this is true not only for me, the individual ego; rather we, in living together, have the world pregiven in this together, as the world valid as existing for us and to which we, together, belong, the world as world for all,"
"It could not rise into its unconcealedness."
"Both by and for the way of looking, what is at hand is veiled as something at hand."
"the being which is connected with the world as something familiar in such and such a way."
"The perspective appearance is not posited, but neither is the parallelism."
"It is no different, in spite of what may appear to be the case, with my tactile body, for if I can, with my left hand, feel my right hand as it touches an object, the right hand as an object is not the right hand as it touches: the first is a system of bones, muscles and <U+FB02>esh brought down at a point of space, the second shoots through space like a rocket to reveal the external object in its place."
"In order to fulfill his essence, there fore, man has to gather (A.e v) and save (a<U+FFFD>l;elV), catch up and preserve, the self opening in its openness; and he must remain exposed to all of its divisive confusion."
"Is it not an attribute of the a priori character of the factical subject (that is, of the facticity of Da sein) that it is equiprimordially in truth and untruth?"
"The ecstatic and horizonal constitution of temporality, in which the datability and significance of the now are grounded, is levelled down by this covering over."
"As the translation of xpewv, usage is not to be understood in these customary but secondary meanings."
"All my actions and thoughts stand in a relationship to this structure, and even a philosopher's thought is merely a way of making explicit his hold on the world, and what he is."
"James was alone, as far as I know, in becoming aware of the phenomena of horizon under the title of fringes but how could he inquire into it without the phenomenologically acquired understanding of intentional objectivity and of implication?"
"Let us take the ambiguity not as a lack of clarity but rather as the mark of its essential unity."
"grows only out of one's primarily being with him."
"Schneider's case, on the other hand, shows deficiencies affecting the junction of sensitivity and significance, deficiencies which disclose the existential conditioning of both."
"The historian, the investigator of the spirit or of culture in every sphere, certainly has physical nature constantly among his phenomena nature in ancient Greece, in our example above."
"It yields for us generalities, species, and essences that admit of insight and thus it appears that the magic word has been spoken: we seek intuitive clarity about the essence of knowledge; knowledge belongs to the sphere cogitatio nes; so we must simply raise, in an act of seeing, the general objectivities of this sphere to consciousness of generalities, and a doctrine of the essence of knowledge becomes possible."
"What we need first is a separation in principle of the latter from the objective a priori which is always immediately substituted for it."
"That does not occur by breaking a law as such, but through my having the responsibility for the other's becoming jeopardized in his existence, led astray, or even destroyed."
"The neuter plural names"
"We must also ask whether the range of problems concerning temporality which necessar ily belongs here was fundamentally worked out or could have been."
"The whole of the drawing 'moment' (Translator's note)."
"This being is not the object of a theoretical world cognition; it is what is used, pro duced, and so on."
"If I am at all times and everywhere, then I am at no time and nowhere."
"Or else, for months or years, he has, in his mind, faced this test and staked his whole life upon it."
"It would enable me to take complete possession of my experience, thus equating thinking and thought."
"Psychology, the universal science of pure souls in general therein consists its abstraction requires the epoche, and it must in advance reduce the world consciousness of all souls, each in its particularity, in its particular contents and modalities."
"The world, which is the nucleus of time, subsists only by virtue of that unique action which both separates and brings together the actually presented and the present; and consciousness, which is taken to be the seat of clear thinking, is on the contrary the very abode of ambiguity."
"To be sure, in Locke this was done with a superficiality, an unmethodical confusion, and indeed even a naturalism that resulted precisely in Humean fictionalism."
"Before we characterize the main traits in the development of reck oning with time and the use of clocks in their existential and ontological meaning, we first want to characterize more completely the time taken care of in the measurement of time."
"Certainly the modern age has, as a consequence of the liberation of humanity, intro duced subjectivism and individualism."
"The fact that Dilthey was epistemologically refuted cannot prevent us from making fruitful use of what is positive in his analyses, which is precisely what has not been understood in these refu tations."
"The gigantic presses forward in a form which seems to make it disappear: in destruction of great distances by the airplane, in the representations of foreign and remote worlds in their everydayness pro duced at will by the flick of a switch."
"What is das Heile withdraws."
"The moving object or rather, as we have called it, the mobile entity, is not identical beneath the phases of movement, it is identical in them."
"The fact that this primordial being guilty initially and for the most part remains undisclosed and is kept closed off by the entangled being of Dasein only reveals this nullity."
"It appears as a mere sign only once it has provided itself with a meaning, and the coming to awareness, if it is to be complete, must rediscover the expressive unity in which both signs and meaning appear in the first place."
"The tone lasts for a while; then we have the unity of the tone and its temporal span with its temporal phases the now phase and the past phases in evident givenness; on the other hand, when we reflect, the phenomenon of the tone duration, which is itself a temporal phenomenon, has its own now phase and phases of having been"
"In accordance with the limits of this whole inquiry, a satisfactory clarification of the existential meaning of this understanding of being can only be attained on the basis of the temporal interpretation of being."
"The question is not how many things can still occur in an ongoing time, or about what kind of a letting come toward oneself we can encounter out of this time, but about how the coming toward oneself is itself to be primor dially detennined as such."
"This expression sometimes means the being of beings as substance, substantiality, sometimes beings themselves, particular substances."
"In comparison to all positive <U+FFFD>"
"Lhermitte, L'Image de notre Corps, pp."
"The Maoris have names of colours, not because they perceive a great many, but, on the contrary, because they fail to identify them when they belong to objects structurally different from each other."
"The science of logic, in contrast, is the science of the absolute which comes to pre.c;ence originally with itself in its self knowledge as the absolute concept"
"The classic example for the historical development of a science, and even for ts ontologi al genesis, is the origin of mathematical physics."
"God is the ens increatum."
"It is the correlative of a universe, the subject possessing in absolutely completed form all the knowledge which is adumbrated by our actual knowledge."
"In the dispensation of value there is set, whether explicitly or not, one necessary and one sufficient value; both, however, are set on the basis of the prevailing relationship of the two toward each other."
"Hardness and resis tance do not show themselves at all unless there is a being which has the kind of being of Da sein, or at least of a living being."
"This self, a witness to any actual communication, and without which the latter would be ignorant of itself, and would not, therefore, be communication at all, would seem to preclude any solution of the problem of others."
"This denial is, however, neither a defect nor a fault as if truth were a pure unconcealment that has rid itself of everything concealed."
"remains, and indeed flows on; but what was before my eyes in that life as the world, having being and validity for me,."
"Historizit, used in the same sense as Geschichtlichkeit, above."
"Even more, it must be freed of the character of an unquestioned tradition which, from the first invention of the new idea and method, allowed elements of obscurity to flow into its meaning."
"Setting up a world and setting forth the earth, the work is the fighting of that fight in which the disclosure of beings as a whole truth is won."
"Similarly, plants and animals have no world; they belong, rather, to the hidden throng of an environment into which they have been put."
"Only because numbers represent, so to speak, the most striking of the always already known, and therefore the best known instances of the mathematical, is the mathematical directly reserved as a name for the numerical."
"There can be no pure and self enclosed explanatory inquiry into the spirit,"
"We wish to understand how that is possible and why it is necessary."
"By leaving aside all our contributions we are supposed to reach the point where the phenomena, of their own accord, show themselves in their appearance."
"Were the thinking activity of a scientist to introduce something time bound in his thinking,.e."
"Clearly this leads not simply to a homogeneous transformation of the generally satisfactory life of the national state but probably to great internal schisms in which this life and the whole national culture suffer an upheaval."
"His greatness lies in this fact unless talking in this way is already a misunderstanding."
"In the historical route of its fonnation, natural consciousness proves itself to be only the concept of knowledge."
"For instance, patients faced with a dead end in a labyrinth have difficulty in finding 'the opposite direction'."
"Yet who is capable of tracing such tracks?"
"Even if we grant, for the sake of the argument, that we are making these assertions in the most exact conformity to the givenness of the cogitatio, the logical forms, which are reflected in the linguistic expression, take us beyond the mere cogitationes."
"In this self externalizing Entihlj.lmmg) consciousness goes out into the farthest reaches Atiflerste of its being."
"But just as the work required a setting up, in the sense of consecrating praising erection (since the work being of the work consisted in a setting up of world), so a setting forth Hnrte/Jung is also necessary, since the work being of the work has itself the character of a Reclam edition, tio."
"Being together with things at hand can neither be explained ontically in terms of those things at hand nor can things at hand be derived from this kind of being."
"Now for the first time there exists such a thing as the position of man."
"For the analysis of death as dying, there remains only the possibility of bringing this phenomenon either to a purely existential concept or, on the other hand, of renouncing any ontological understanding of it."
"Nor is nihilism a product of particular nations whose thinkers and writers speak specifically of nihilism."
"In each of these acts the ego is directed toward objects in its surrounding world, dealing with them in one way or another."
"Time is understood as a sequence, as the flux of nows, as the course of time."
"depth zo of our being"
"The phenomenological world is not pure being, but the sense which is revealed where the paths of my various experiences intersect, and also where my own and other people's intersect and engage each other like gears."
"Do not misunderstand: beings are not primarily and only as things willed; rather they are, so long as they are, themselves in the mode of willing."
"But transcendence is in principle not experienceable."
"But this means at the same time that within the vitally flowing intentionality in which the life of an ego subject consists, every other ego is already intentionally implied in advance by way of empathy and the empathy horizon."
"It is a being that is concerned in its being about its ownmost potentiality of being."
"Now, for the object to exist in the eyes of the subject, it is not enough for this 'subject' to fix his eyes on it or grasp it as my hand grasps this piece of wood, he must in addition know that he is seizing or watching it, he must know himself seizing or watching, his action must be entirely given to himself, and finally this subject must be nothing other than what he is conscious of being, otherwise we should have a seizure or a contemplation of the object for some third party, while the alleged subject, being unaware of himself, would be dispersed through his act and unconscious of anything."
"Meanwhile even the track of the sacred has become unrecognizable."
"In this sense our nature is not long established custom, since custom presupposes the form of passivity derived from nature."
"Only what we inwardly keep (pm CfE' ')"
"The spannedness of time is not understood in terms of the horizontal being stretched along of the ecstatic unity of temporality that has made itself public in taking care of time."
"Our thematic analytic of existence needs in its tum"
"It covers over more than it reveals."
"The question ought to arise: How does it come about that it is so difficult in llner's illusion to compare in isolation the very lines that have to be compared according to the task set?"
"th Meditation,. 'attention' and 'judgement' meaning for the thing perceived which is not prior to the perception itself and which seems to emanate from it."
"Eademque such a way that it characterizes the substantiality of this substance."
"However, this presupposition remains hidden because the expression to appear in this definition of appearance is used in two senses."
"The fact that the Abschattungen A' and A<U+2033> appear to me as Abschattungen of, is not to be explained by the fact that they all participate in an ideal unity A which is their common ground."
"In accordance with its essence, the will to power is the will that posits values."
"The reversal is also part of this."
"In essence, though somewhat schematically, we have now sketched the historical motivation which makes understandable how, beginning with a few Greek eccentrics, a transformation of human existence and its whole cultural life could be initiated, at first in their own and then in neighboring nations."
"If the time we take care of is really made public only when it gets measured, then public time is to be acces ible in a way that has been phenomenally unveiled."
"But this common reality, which necessarily extends as far as any possible kind of communalization, while it is an object of consciousness in its identity, is such only as an interpersonally emerging unity of identification, of verification to be constated in communal life."
"Against the first seeds of the development of science there arose the skeptical critique of science and of all practical norms which lay claim to objective validity."
"Values are the conditions of preservation increase within the being of beings."
"In a note that dates from the time he was drafting his first work Nietzsche wrote (in The Birth ofTmgedy, o): I believe in the ancient German saying: all Faith and Knowledge, the gods must die."
"The different kinds of in order to such as serviceability, helpfulness, usability, handiness, constitute a totality of useful things."
"We want to justify this thesis with the intention of setting forth the logical onto problem of history as an existential one."
"Something akin to a region must already be discovered if there is to be any possibility of referring and finding the places of a totality of useful things available to circumspection."
"This is thedomain of the natural scientist oriented purely toward the ends of his vocation, and within thisdomain in turn are distin guished: on the one hand that which has already been theoretically established and in a certain sense the whole horizon of the science to which it belongs, but in such a way that this in particular has been established within it; and on the other hand what must be set in the way of new tasks for the science, since what has been taken care of is always at the same time, after all, a foundation on which more must be built theoretically; namely, new questions must be posed and answered."
"And that these two images merge into one because fixation brings them back to corresponding points on the two retinas?"
"hoc nor deficient. '"
"The boundary, in the Greek sense, does not block off but, rather, as itself something brought forth, first brings what is present to radiance."
"In stems from live, habitare, to dwell."
"The vulgar interpretation of the temporal character of history is thus justified within its limits."
"causal thought, and a contradictory principle"
"Machine technology still remains the most visible outgrowth of the essence of mod em technology, an essence which is identical with the essence of modem metaphysics."
"PhellomenoJg<U+FFFD> carries out its cll !"
"The more inauthentic th present is, that is, the more making pre sent comes to itself, the more it flees from a definite potentiality of being and closes it off."
"The yap, for or namely, introduces a grounding."
"And because Dasein is always essentially its possibility, it can choose itself in its being, it can win itself, it can lose itself, or it can never and only apparently win itself."
"As such it resists every attempt at definition."
"We have drawn attention elsewhe to the fact that the specialized regions of the brain, the 'optical zone', for example, never function in isolation."
"aujliisen into the void nothing, but they redeem."
"These indifferent modes of being with one another tend to mislead the ontological interpretation into initially interpreting this being as the pure objective presence of several subjects."
"Bild deliber ition ate self assertion, in its projects, places a scheme based only on calculated."
"In the struggle, each opponent carries the other beyond itself."
"It is true that ontological inquiry is more original than the ontic inquiry of the positive sciences."
"It is clear that the same thing is true of this world survey, in the form of an iterated synthesis of relative, spatiotemporal life worlds, that is true of a survey of one such life world individually."
"We do not mean that the line (Fig., acting as a cause, disorganizes the cube into which it is introduced, but that it induces a general grasp which is not the grasp in depth."
"It is neither contradictory nor impossible that each sense should constitute a small world within the larger one, and it is even in virtue of its peculiarity that it is necessary to the whole and opens upon the whole."
"But this is admitting what we are trying to show: that the sight of one single object is not a simple outcome of focusing the eyes, that it is anticipated in the very act of focusing, or that, as has been stated, the focusing of the gaze is a 'prospective activity'."
"Sense experience, thus detached from the affective and motor functions, became the mere reception of a quality, and physiologists thought they could follow, from the point of reception to the nervous centres, the projection of the external world in the living body."
"But while being in the world canno be roken up into components that may be pieced together, this does not prevent it from having several constitutive struc tural factors."
"The more fully the presentation goes the way of despair, the sooner science completes its own phenomenon."
"For example, requesting (euche) also makes something manifest, but in a different way."
"In the same way, although my present draws into itself time past and time to come, it possesses them only in intention, and even if, for example, the consciousness of my past which I now have seems to me to cover exactly the past as it was, the past which I claim to recapture is not the real past, but my past as I now see it, perhaps after altering it."
"than the mere thing is a piece of equipment minus the marks of authentic equipmentality usefulness and being made."
"As a philosopher proceeding from the practical, finite surrounding world (of the room, the city, the landscape, etc., and temporally the world of periodical occurrences:"
"Between sense experience and knowing, common experience establishes a difference which is not that between the quality and the concept"
"The perceived is not necessarily an object present before me as a piece of knowledge to be acquired, it may be a 'unity of value' which is present to me only practically."
"(La Structure du Comportement, Chaps."
"If this is how things are, then it must be possible to experience createdness in the work itself."
"The object is not a real reelles part of the phenomenon in its temporality"
"But immediately we become involved in great difficulties, in unexpected and at first insoluble paradoxes, which place our whole undertaking in question and this in spite of the self evidences which offered themselves to us and which we cannot simply give up out of hand."
"ot through the description and explanation of a pair of shoes actually present."
"And yet if we look at it with the photometer we are surprised to see that it sends the same mixture of rays to the eye as does a brown paper in daylight."
"Why does this involve an authentic occurrence of Da sein?"
"In the pregiven world, nature is, in terms of constitution, a causal unity of mutual exteriority."
"And why does the judgment with the sense times is never have this index of feeling, and why can't it have it?"
"What does it mean that being is, where being is, after all, supposed to be distinguished from all beings?"
"The constitution of useful things as things at hand has been described as reference."
"It is eindringlicher."
"This taking up of relations to the world is possible only because, as being in the world, Dasein is as it is."
"Being being the ground of a nullity."
"ietzsche's thought that thinks the overman originates from a thinking that thinks being ontologically as beings and so submits to the essence of metaphysics without, however, being able to experience this essence within metaphysics."
"This representing makes a presentation."
"If not, what should we, who believe, do in order to be able to believe?"
"According to this doctrine life, which means at the same time beings as such in their entirety, is to be negated."
"If sexuality in man were an autonomous re<U+FB02>ex apparatus, if the object of sexual desire affected some organ of pleasurable sensation anatomically defined, then the effect of the cerebral injury would be to free these automatic responses and take the form of accentuated sexual behaviour."
"Similarly, when I am sitting at my table, I can instantly visualize the parts of my body which are hidden from me."
"Another person can incur debts to others for me."
"But, one would like to say, this relation is, after all already constitutive for one's own Da sein, which has an understanding of its own being and is thus related to Da sein."
"How could it, seeing that science is the truth of the not yet true, and so it is the not yet true, though in the truth of the not yet true."
"And we, unprepared as all of us arc together, we must not think that we will alter this destiny by a lecture about Niet.sche's statement or even learn to know it only adequately."
"Das Erz hat Heimweh."
"And, conversely: a radical, psychological unfolding of my apperceptive life and of the particular world appearing in it, in respect to the how of the particular appearances (thus of the human world picture this, in the transition to the transcendental attitude, would immediately have to take on transcendental significance as soon as I now, at the higher level, constantly take into account the meaning conferring accomplishment which is responsible for the objective"
"Thus in general, as his first and most fundamental subject matter, he has the pure act life of the persons,.e., primarily the conscious life in the narrower sense."
"We shall make no claim to give even a relatively complete treatment of the allied problems in Hegel, especially since we have no intention of criticizing Hegel."
"Appearance is now the appearance of knowledge."
"Presumably it lies in that which a being, in truth, is."
"Therefore, defenselessness in reverse is that which saves us."
"The methodological directive for this has already been given."
"The a priori is related to the being of mankind and the surrounding world that is valid for it in experience, thinking, and acting."
"Body, soul, spirit might designate areas of phenomena which are thematically separable for the sake of determinate investigations; within certain limits their ontological indeterminancy might not be so important."
"In the horizon of the Kantian problem what is understood phenomenologically by the term phenomenon (dis regarding other differences) can be illustrated when we say that what already shows itself in appearances prior to and always accompanying what we commonly understand as phenomena, though unthematically, can be brought thematically to self showing."
"We can therefore see what the question involves; empiricism would willingly take the actual orientation of my bodily experience as the fixed point we need if we are to understand that there are directions for us, but both experience and re<U+FB02>ection demonstrate that no content is in itself orientated."
"And Yorck, who saw through all false relational definitions and groundless relativisms, did not hesitate to draw the final conclusion from his insight into the historicity of Da sein."
"The present chapter thus has the following articulation: the tem porality of disclosedness in general (section ); the temporality of being in the world and the problem of transcendence (section ); temporality of the spatiality commensurate with Dasein (section the ); the temporal meaning of the everydayness commensurate with Dasein section. ."
"However, because natural consciousness fails to think objectivity as such, while nonetheless representing it, natural consciousness both is on tological and yet is not."
"It is true that being is presupposed in all previous ontology, but not as an available concept not as the sort of thing we are seeking."
"But now this is the danger point"
"I Thus to every psychological experience there corresponds, by way of the phenomenological reduction, C!."
"The orator does not think before speaking, nor even while speaking; his speech is his thought."
"Here the fundamental law, with unconditionally general self evidence, is: if the premises can actually be reactivated back to the most original self evidence, then their self evident consequences can be also."
"The fact that this may not have been realized earlier is explained by the fact that any coming to awareness of the perceptual world was hampered by the prejudices arising from objective thinking."
"a priori and universal objective a priori and"
"Descartes was not unmindful of this."
"as long as the question of the meaning of being in general remains unasked and unclarified?"
"The interconnection of both makes up the objective scientific mind which encompasses both infinities, that of the multiplicities of appearance, in which one and the same thing exhibits itself, and that of the things themselves."
"Even if I know that it can be seen in two ways, the figure in fact refuses to change its structure and my knowledge must await its intuitive realization."
"It is through this birth that we are destined to graduate to a world, and we must therefore describe it."
"How is the they related in an understanding way to its ownmost nonrelational possibility not to be bypassed of Da sein?"
"The communication or comprehension of gestures comes about through the reciprocity of my intentions and the gestures of others, of my gestures and intentions discernible in the conduct of other people."
"Of course, it was possible and necessary to reach a concrete definition of the existentiality of existence in this way."
"We can illustrate its origin with the following quotations"
"We are not, then reducing the significance of the word, or even of the percept, to a collection of 'bodily sensations' but we are saying that the body, in so far as it has 'behaviour patterns', is that strange object which uses its own parts as a general system of symbols for the world, and through which we can consequently 'be at home in' that world, 'understand' it and find significance in it."
"Possibility and probability presuppose the prior experience of error, and correspond to a state of doubt."
"One can ask: how can knowledge reach out beyond itself, how can it make contact with a being that is not to bc found within the confines of consciousness?"
"The permanence of a thing, its constancy, consists in matter remaining together with form."
"What is demonstrated is the discovering being of the assertion."
"To sing song, means: to be present in presencing itself; it means: existence."
"Then the world is an object."
"Its 'sense, significance, direction' (Translator's note)."
"At all levels it performs the same function which is to endow the instantaneous expressions of spontaneity with 'a little renewable action and independent existence'."
"Only where, in essence, man has become subject does there exist the possibility of sliding into the unbeing of subjectivism in the sense of individualism."
", thingliness, too, must be part of the work."
"The most primordial and authentic disclosedness in which Dasein can be as a potentiality of being is the truth of existence."
"To sum up, we are restoring to the cogito a temporal thickness."
"the character of appearance, representation in the sense of presentation."
"Here talk of the legitimate place."
"Thinkers are intrinsically skeptics about beings be."
"This authentic disclosedness shows the phenomenon of the most primordial truth in the mode of authenticity."
", then distinguishes this in the footnote from behaviorism, which he thinks is quite different."
"This means something different from what the reference at the beginning of the sixth paragraph means: Natural consciousness will prove itself to be only the concept of knowledge. ."
"One such thing which does not, itc;elf, appear a thing in itself in other words is, according to Kant, the world as a totality."
"I may be familiar with a face without ever having perceived the colour of the eyes in themselves."
"(and Hume had in fact worked this out in detail in the Treatise, which was unknown to Kant)."
"According to our remark above, pp."
"A bit of the past is still present in it."
"The quantitative is not merely what is found in the appearing extensional processes as such the quantitative is also something indicated by what is merely qualitative."
"Our formal indication of the idea of existence was guided by the understanding of being in Dasein itself."
"It would be absurdly circular to want to deal with such problems on a naive, objective basis through the method of the objective sciences."
"ber die Abh ngigkeit. ."
"Care was characterized with respect to its temporal meaning only in its basic features."
"The expression is again often used by Husserl, for example Ideen,."
"Experience is the mode in which consciousness, in that it is, departs for its concept, which is what it is in truth."
"Of course, the new theoretical interest in the universal life world itself, in its own manner of being, requires a certain epoche in regard to all these interests,.e."
"The They The analysis of the worldliness of the world continually brought the whole phenomenon of being in the world into view without thereby delimiting all of its constitutive factors with the same phenomenal clar ity as the phenomenon of world itself."
"What we have experienced is, and remains, permanently ours; and in old age a man is still in contact with his youth."
"But every serious and genuine move from a ready made entity back to its intentional origins gives us, in respect to those strata already uncovered and the clarification of what is accomplished in them, an understanding which, though merely relative, is yet an actual understanding as far as it goes."
"And indeed its spatiality is not, like that of external objects or like that"
"The ground is always ground only for a being whose being has to take over being the ground"
"The picture over and above the sense data, speech over and above linguistic data must, therefore, in themselves possess a signifying virtue, independently of any meaning that exists for itself, in the mind of the spectator or listener. '"
"For when Kant gives the old word a new meaning through his critique of reason, one can easily convince oneself that the quite different idealism of Berkeley and Hume, indeed any idealism, looked at more closely, has the same thematic field and poses questions within this field which are only differently formulated."
"A husband, on his return from a long journey, is delighted to find new children in his home."
"Indifference, which can go along with busying oneself head over heels, is to be sharply distinguished from equanimity."
"Hence living things arc linked by the two fundamental traits of increase and preservation,.e."
"The explanation of the name of truth namely, that it is the agreement of knowledge with its objectwill be here granted and presupposed."
"But to being in the world elongs the fact that it is entrusted to itself, that it is always already thrown into a world."
"But is not the thesis of the temporality of moods perhaps valid only for the phenomena that we selected?"
"Now the sensation and images which are supposed to be the beginning and end of all knowledge never make their appearance anywhere other than within a horizon of meaning, and the significance of the percept, far from resulting from an association, is in fact presupposed in all association, whether it concerns the conspectus of a figure before one, or the recollection of former experiences."
"My body can, however, more without drawing along with it the directions of upward and downward, as when I lie down on the ground, and Wertheimer's experiment shows that the objective direction of my body can form an appreciable angle with the apparent vertical of the spectacle."
"The authentic coming toward itself of anticipatory resoluteness is at the same time a coming back to the ownm ost self thrown into its individuation."
"With the intention of penetrating to the being of the totality of the structural whole, we shall take our point of departure from the con crete analysis of entanglement carried out in the las chapter."
"Does that very poet encounter us, a poet who today is often and hastily dragged into the vicinity of thinking and plastered over with a good deal of half thought out philosophy?"
"Perhaps it is already a sufficient examination for us to observe what knowledge is when it cannot he a means a priori."
"The object, psychologists would assert, is never ambiguous, but becomes so only through our inattention."
"and I am scarcely aware of any voluntary initiative. ."
"It starts with ideas of lmuwledge as an instrument, and as a medium; and presupposes a distinction ofotmelvesfrom this knuw/edge."
"There is no way of understanding them other than by looking at them, but to the beholder they say what they mean."
"The botanist's plants are not the flowers of the hedgerow, the river's source ascertained by the geographer is not the source in the ground."
"This identical is necessarily a substruction."
"Sight is achieved and fulfils itself in the thing seen."
"Only when we construct general udgments of essence do we attain the secure objectivity required by science."
"To let in means: to draw into and fit into the unlit entirety of the tuggings of the pure attraction."
"In its representation df beings, natural consciousness docs not attend to being; nonetheless, it must do so."
"Humanity (or a closed community such as a nation, tribe, etc.), in its historical situation, always lives under some attitude or other."
"Meaning is that wherein the intelligibility of something maintains itself."
"From the beginning, the whole method has a general sense, even though one always has to do with what is individual and factual."
"The caller is unfamiliar to the everyday they self, it is something like an alien voice."
"It is simply that sometimes the parts mingle and become confused, at others they link up into a clearly articulated whole, and reveal their wealth of detail."
"Dasein can fall prey only because it is concerned with understanding, attuned being in the world."
"And they do take their revenge."
"When I am led through a strange apartment towards its owner, there is someone who knows on my behalf, for whom the unfolding of the visual spectacle has a meaning, and who moves towards a goal, and I entrust or lend myself to this knowledge which I do not possess."
"The acquisition of sight involves a general reorganization of existence which equally concerns touch."
"To this always belongs another progression: that of approximating what is given sensibly and intuitively in the surrounding life world to the mathematically ideal,.e., the perfecting of the always merely approximate subsumptions of empirical data under the ideal concepts pertaining to them."
"it is, in this function, in competition with the other sectors of experience, and the vertical tends to follow the direction of the head only if the visual field is empty, and if the 'anchoring points' are lacking, for example when one is working in the dark."
"However, the is not the spirit as the synthesis substance of human being of body and soul, but existence."
"It solves a problem set only in the form of a vague feeling of uneasiness, it organizes elements which up to that moment did not belong to the same universe and which, for that reason, as Kant said with profound insight, could not be associated."
"And since the genesis of the objective body is only a moment in the constitution of the object, the body, by withdrawing from the objective world, will carry with it the intentional threads linking it to its surrounding and finally reveal to us the perceiving subject as the perceived world."
"This essential eing guilty is,"
"In such knowledge we go beyond what is given in the genuine sense, beyond what can be directly seen and appre hended."
"Yet the question remains: is art still an essential and necessary way in which that truth happens which is decisive for our historical existence, or is this something that art no longer is?"
"Can we live in this world, where historical occurrence is nothing but an unending concatenation of illusory progress and bitter disappointment?."
"The goal of exact natural science is a different one,.e.,"
"The now explicated second clause of the saying does not answer this question."
"Through these considerations we see that, from the very first conceiving and carrying out of the method, the passionate interest of the natural scientist was concentrated on this decisive, fundamental aspect of the above mentioned total accomplishment,.e."
"However, the fact that this is at our disposal insofar as we ourselves are consciousness does not mean that it is yet explicitly at our disposal."
"It is not because the latter is deficient that designatory movements become impossible, but, on the contrary, because the attitude of Zeigen is impossible that the visual stimuli arouse only partial reactions."
"would do, so that the boundaries dividing it from the surrounding space would themselves just define that space spatially."
"we discover the real art within it."
"This will is the reality of what is real, or, taking the word further than Nietzsche usually cares to employ it: it is the being of beings."
"As an ontological term, reality is related to inner worldly beings."
"Our interpretation of fear as attunement showed that what we fear is always a detrimental innerworldy being, approaching nearby from a definite region, which may remain absent."
"His transcendental logic is an a priori logic of the realm of being called nature."
"It will gradually become clearer, and finally be completely clear, that the proper return to the naivete of life but in a reflection which rises above this naivete is the only possible way to overcome the philosophical naivete which lies in the supposedly scientific character of traditional objectivistic philosophy."
"Because of this direness, subsequent thinking till our own day has mistaken the essential beginni ng of metaphysics."
"Real truth is the correlate of real being, and just as real being is an infinitely distant idea, the idea of a pole for systematic infinities of appearances, of experiences in constantly legitimate presumption, so real truth is an infinitely distant idea, that of what is identical in the agreement of experiential judgments, in each of which truth appears, achieves legitimate subjective givenness."
"There is thus, either in the man who listens or reads, or in the one who speaks or writes, a thought in speech the existence of which is unsuspected by intellectualism."
"But in spite of this I say: it is the same thing; it is only the manners of its sensible exhibition, of course, that are different."
"Bestowal and grounding have in themselves the abruptness of what we call a beginning."
"But it is no less certain and no less to he kept in mind beforehand that <U+FFFD>"
"The world is that reality of which the necessary and the possible are merely provinces."
"I must apprehend myself from the onset as centred in a way outside myself, and my individual existence must diffuse round itself, so to speak, an existence in quality."
"The chief question will be, of course, exactly what is actually given and what is not given when evidence occurs in its pure state?"
"For this, rather, certain structures stand out, such as straight lines, triangles, circles."
"Here, then, lies the answer sufficient for our present train of thought to the question posed, as to how it happens that nature, as given in the life world, this merely subjective aspect of outer experience, is not included under psychological experience in traditional psychology and that psychological experience is instead opposed to outer experience."
"The relation of being that grounds to beings that are grounded is the same with men on the one hand and with plants and animals on the other."
"The relation between the motivating and the motivated is thus reciprocal."
"Not, it is true, in the sense that a servant might strive I 'S to emerge from the role of vassal to become a ma.'i"
"Conversely: every qualitative change, every qualitative being such Sosein should, if the quality belongs to a normal appearance, be a property of the real itself."
"But if we place ourselves within this experience, the experience itself shows it will be argued against us that, in respect to the corporeal and the spiritual, the mistaken dualistic interpretation is taken up into the supposed experiential meaning and gives researchers the right to do justice to dualism, which is actually purely empirically grounded, and to operate just as they do with inner and outer experience, with temporality, reality, and causality."
"The necessity of separating the experience of bodies from the experience of the spirit has not been clearly established; nor has the legitimacy, claimed in advance, of taking the experience of bodies, with the constant signification it has for the psychologist as for everyone else, and including it in the psychic, thus making its universality an allencompassing one."
"Yet let us ask this question more clearly with the stringency appropriate to it."
"This forces us to admit that the possibility of knowledge, with regard to its ability to make contact ith objectivity, is a riddle."
"How could it be possible otherwise?"
"and yet it is nowhere."
"Beings are discovered only when Dasein is, and only as long as Dasein is are they disclosed."
"This way of talking, indeed, gets at what it was ontically."
"movement and background are, in fact, only artificially separated stages of a unique totality.'"
"This analysis of the perception of weight elucidates the whole of tactile perception: the movement of one's own body is to touch what lighting is to vision."
"This metaphysical meaning of the concept of the subject has, in the first instance, no special relationship to man, and none at all to the I."
"Externally binding both phenomena together is intrinsically out of the question."
"Tenses, like the other temporal phenomena of language kinds of action and temporal stages do not originate from the fact that dis course also speaks about temporal processes, namely, processes that are encountered in time."
"The systematically worked out theory of these laws had, of itself, the meaning of a general ontology."
"We put it this way emphatically to indicate, with a perhaps off putting directness, that refusal in the mode of concealing is intrinsic to unconcealment as clearing."
"Evading toward the end is indeed certain of death in another way than it itself would like to realize in purely theoretical considerations."
"A second element in the development of an a prioiontology was made up of such observations as: I hear a tone and see a vibrating motion of a string and the tone is qualitatively the same, independently of color, of the sensibly qualitative, but it is dependent on the strength of tension, the thickness of the string and the latter are all measurable factors."
"Dasein is a being which is related unders tandingly in its being toward that being."
"Accordingly, human willing can also he in the mode of self assertion only by forcing everything into its realm in advance, even before it surveys anything."
"is that it moves upon the ground of the world which is pregiven, taken for granted through experience, seeks the objective truth of this world, seeks what, in this world, is unconditionally valid for every rational being, what it is in itself."
"But it tops us, too."
"It is not an objectively present framework in which Dasein occurs or into which it could even bring itself."
"It is the fault of the inadequate way in which we see the presentation, we who continue to bedominated by the rep resentational mode of natural consciousness."
"We are the ones who will, who set up, in the mode of deliberate self assertion, the world as object."
"That which stands presently in unconcealment stays weilt in it as the open region."
"an ulterior I. Perception is always in the mode of the impersonal 'One'."
"Our ontological interpretation of Dasein has brought the pre ontological self interpretation of this being as care to the existential concept of care."
"Or, again, if the examination of knowledge, which we represent as a medium, makes us acquainted with the law of its refraction, it is likewise useless to eliminate this refraction from the result."
"Thus we have shown the ontological derivation of the traditional concept of truth."
"If I place my watch on the table of my room, and it suddenly disappears only to reappear a few seconds later on the table in the next room, I do not say that there has been motion; there is motion only if the intermediate positions have been actually occupied by the watch."
"It is to it that the perceived object and the perceiving subject owe their thickness."
"And yet it is the responsibility of science alone to get at what these words mean: absolute, knowledge, true, objective, subjective."
"It is Dasein in ts uncanniness, primordially thrown being in the world, as not athome, the naked that in the nothingness of the world."
"The symptom of aphonia reappears because the mother's prohibition restores the situation metaphorically, and because, moreover, by shutting off the future from the subject, it leads her back to her favourite forms of behaviour."
"On these paths Dasein does not tra verse,"
"What is shared is the being toward what is pointed out which has a way of seeing common to all."
"The rest of us must learn to listen to what these poets say which assumes that we arc not deceiving ourselves about the time that conceals lvt' being by saving birgt it; deceiving ourselves, that is, into calculating the time only on the basis of beings, by dissecting them."
"For these contents would themselves have to have a direction, in order to pass it on to the field. 'Inverted' or 'upright', in themselves, obviously have no meaning."
"Presentation is a path, but it does not traverse the distance from pre philosophical representation to philosophy."
"This becomes for all later times the guiding star of the sciences."
"This term must be understood in the active sense as an ecstasy."
"but precisely what ultimately has in short (but understood quite unmetaphysically)"
"Ia think in the midst of the sciences means: to go past them without despising them."
"Seeing, some distance away in the margin of my visual field, a large moving shadow, I look in that direction and the phantasm shrinks and takes up its due place; it was simply a <U+FB02>y near my eye."
"My truths have been built out of these errors, and carry them along in their eternity."
"He does not say: 'I doubt, therefore I am', but 'I think, therefore I am', which means that doubt itself is certain, not as actual doubt, but as pure thought about doubting and, since the same might be said in turn about this thought, the only proposition which is absolutely certain and which halts doubt in its tracks because it is implied by that doubt, is: 'I think,' or again, 'something appears to me'."
"But for the logical interpretation of this being, onto this means that the problematic of its being is to be developed out of the existentiality of its existence."
"But what is being referred to?"
"The where of their handiness is taken account of in taking care of things and is oriented toward other handy things."
"The overview illumines taking care, and gets its light from the potentiality of being of Dasein for the sake of which taking care exists as care."
"This a primi of the interpretation of Dasein is not a structure which is pieced together, but rather a structure which is primordially and constantly whole."
"ns of innerworldly beings objectively present at positions in space, but, rather, characteristics of the primordial spatiality of Da sein."
"This contains the hypothesis of idealization."
"This is what our patient is no longer able to do."
"Not to refuse is not the same thing as to choose."
"One of the essential phenomena of modernity is its science."
"Wirklichkeit des Seins"
"To take this land fully into possession means: to know the self certainty of self consciousness in ito; unconditional essence and to be in this knowledge as in knowledge par"
"So let us now ask what Nietzsche understands by life."
"It sees through to the disastrousness of merely lying in wait for the hitherto to return."
"By so doing it founds their being with one another"
"This, then, is for philosophy truly a realizable, though infinitely distant, goal not for the individual or a given community of researchers but certainly for the infinite progression of the generations and their systematic researches."
"The phenomena are only in the subjects; they are there only as causal results of events taking place in true nature, which events exist only with mathematical properties."
"The fundamental possibilities of existence, the authenticity and inauthenticity of Da sein, are ontologically grounded in possible tem poralizations of temporality."
"All knowledge takes its place within the horizons opened up by perception."
"We shall attempt to penetrate to the phenomenon of Ang st step by step."
"By the same token, we are not concerned here with any scientific psychology and its problems."
"But they are not pronouns, either."
"The distinction between the being of existing Dasein and the being of beings unlike Dasein (for example, reality) may seem to be illu minating, but it is only the point of departure for the ontological problematic; it is nothing with which philosophy can rest and be satisfied."
"Nihilism, thought in its essence, is on the contrary the fundamental movement of the history of the West."
"When, here and elsewhere, we conceive of truth as unconcealment, we are not merely taking refuge in a more literal formulation of the Greek word."
"etration both the presuppositions themselves and"
"There has never been a scientific inquiry into the way in which the life world constantly functions as subsoil, into how its manifold prelogical validities act as grounds for the logical ones, for theoretical truths."
", freedom gained through the unsurpassable radicalism of the full transcendental epoche, that makes possible a true liberation from the traditional temptations; and this is to say that it is only by being in possession of the totality of the subjective sphere, in which man, the communities of men intentionally and internally bound together, and the world in which they live, are themselves included as intentional objects it is only by being in possession of this totality that one becomes capable of seeing and systematically investigating what we characterized as the how of manners of givenness."
"though what is used so universally falls short of the primordiality of ontological explication."
"I can of course take a mental bird's eye view of the <U+FB02>at, visualize it or draw a plan of it on paper, but in that case too I could not grasp the unity of the object without the mediation of bodily experience, for what I call a plan is only a more comprehensive perspective"
"When we notice its unhandiness, what is at hand enters the mode of obtrusiveness."
"And the structure of that to which Dasein is referred is what constitutes the worldliness of the world."
"It cannot be anything spatial, sexual, temporal without being so in its entirety, without taking up and carrying forward its 'attributes' and making them into so many dimensions of its being, with the result that an analysis of any one of them that is at all searching really touches upon subjectivity itself."
"In characterizing the connection between care and selfhood, our aim was not only to clarify the special problem of hood but also to help in the fmal preparation for phenomenally grasping the totality of the struc tural whole of Da sein."
"The phenomenal demonstration of such an attestation thus contains the evidence of its origin from the constitution of being of Da sein."
"The ontological truth of the existential analysis is developed on the basis of primordial, existentiell truth."
"But the definiteness of time presupposes something objectively present which persists."
"These objects Gegenstiindliche are that which is represented one sidedly and exclusively from the side of standing against Gegenstehen without taking either representation or that which represents into consideration."
"First, that it names the presencing of what is present;"
"Every onto logically explicit question about the being of Dasein has already had the way prepared for it by the kind of being of Da sein."
"As a mode of discourse, reti cence articulates the intelligibility of Dasein so primordially that it gives rise to a genuine potentiality for hearing and to a being with one another that is transparent."
"Of course one speaks quite unavoidably, even in the Lockean terminology, of perceptions, representations of things, or of believing in something/' willing something/' and the like."
"The first divi sion treats mechanics."
"the being das Seiende beingness Being I cannot be defined by attributing beings to it."
"That creature is ontological which, in accordance with its nature, stands within this history by enduring it each time in accordance with the unconcealedness of beings."
"The greatest service done by expression is not to commit to writing ideas which might be lost."
"A landscape or newspaper seen upside down are said to represent our original view of them, our normal view of them being now natural by reason of what is added to it by memory. '"
"But even if, per impossible, I could construct consciousness of the past with transferred presents, they certainly could not open a future for me."
"But neither hardness nor resistance is understood in a phenomenal sense, as something experi enced in itself and determinable in such experience."
"Being together with. ."
"thatDa sein is as long as it is."
"Inauthenti itself upon what an be taken care of, what can done, what urgent or indispensable in the business everyday activ ity."
"eine universale Induktivit,.e."
"Sometimes it moves in the autumn landscape and at other times the landscape too moves."
"In what way can the statement be made by changing the interpretation?"
"My consciousness, being co extensive with what can exist for me, and corresponding to the whole system of experience, cannot encounter, in that system, another consciousness capable of bringing immediately to light in the world the background, unknown to me, of its own phenomena."
"The deceased, as distinct from the dead body, has been torn away from those remaining behind, and is the object of being taken care of in funeral rites, the burial, and the cult of graves."
"Wesens foll of supersensory its putrefaction Vmvesung)."
"die Form eben durch urspr ngliches Formbegreifen zu erkennen geben.'"
"These make up at the same time the fund of premises for an infinite horizon of tasks as the unity of one all encompassing task."
"But if this vulgar characterization is to be stripped of its seeming self evidence and exclu siveness, historicity is to be deduced beforehand purely from the primordial temporality of Da sein."
"But fundamentally essential insights must first be attained here about the structure of this immanent time and, on the other hand, about how objective time receives constitutive meaning as the form of transcendent natural being, in which form the immanent times of souls are made objectively temporal and with them the souls themselves."
"This is why what happens historically is necessarily misinterpreted."
"We will get closer to what is if we think everything in reverse asswning, of course, that we have, in advance, an eye for how differently everything then faces us."
"We should like to analyses closely an example of morbid motility which clearly shows the fundamental relations between the body and space."
"The places of these things, which are constantly at hand in various ways and yet uni formly, become accentuated indicators of the regions contained in them."
"The various points on the left hand are transferred to the right as relevant to a total organ, a hand without parts which has been suddenly displaced."
"Consciousness is neither the positing of oneself, nor ignorance of oneself, it is not concealed from itself, which means that there is nothing in it which does not in some way announce itself to it, although it does not need to know this explicitly."
"The they is everywhere, but in such a way that it has always already stolen away when Dasein presses for a decision."
"But along with this also arose the extraordinarily difficult problems connected with the method itself, with the epoche and the reduction and their own phenomenological understanding and their extraordinary philosophical significance."
"making present is time."
"The Ontological Priority of the.estion of Being The characterization of the question of being, under the guideline of the formal structure of the question as such, has made it clear that this question is a unique one, such that its elaboration and even its solution require a series of fundamental reflections."
"Picture means, here, not a mere imitation, but rather that which sounds in the colloquial expression to he in the picture about something."
"However, this gathering, the Myos, changes at any time as the essence of the ov changes, and on the basis of it; and as the Myos changes, so does the ontology."
"stubbornly remains a cube) but lines which disunite the elements of one and the same plane and join up those of different planes (Fig."
"As far as we are concerned, consciousness attributes this power of universal constitution to itself only if it ignores the event which provides its infrastructure and which is its birth."
"The equipment's readiness for usc means that it is released beyond itself to disappear into usefulness."
"The fighting of the fight is the con tinually self surpassing gathering of the agitation of the work."
"This, then, is accomplished at first within the spiritual space of a single nation, the Greek nation, as the development of philosophy and of philosophical communities."
"The essence of nihilism is part of the history in which, as which, being itself essences."
"Rilke writes in a letter from Muzot on August"
"Nothing less than this absolute object and this divine subject are needed to ward off the threat of the malicious demon and to ensure that we possess the true idea."
"Dasein can discover, preserve, and explicitly pursue tradition."
"ontolo gi cal meaning of everydayness as such problematic."
"Now it is no longer a conglomeration of different nations influencing one another only through commerce and power struggles."
", on the formulae, and on the technical method natural scientific method, method of the true knowledge of nature of acquiring them and grounding them logically and compellingly for all."
"He succeeds only by being allowed 'imitative movements' (nachfahrende Bewegungen) of the head, hands or fingers which sketch in the imperfect outline of the object."
"But this embarrassment disappears as soon as we consider that the life world does have, in all its relative features, a general structure."
"It characterizes what is only possible."
"All consciousness is, in some measure, perceptual consciousness."
"Such detachment came at times to a man exhausted by prolonged physical effort and isolation."
"These, for the poet, are the tracks of the fugitive gods."
"Where does it stand?"
"This condition of possibility consti tutes the being of the point, and being is at the same time being thought."
"Furthermore, the movement of visible objects is not the mere transference from place to place of coloured patches which, in the visual field, correspond to those objects."
"The Temporality ofFalling Prey."
"Now that we have completed our interpretation of the everyday talk of the they about death and the way death enters Da sein, we have been led to the characteristics of certainty and indefiniteness."
"Correspondence, thought as the fundamental feature of the being of beings, provides the pattern for the very definite possibilities and ways in which the truth of this being of beings, within beings, sets itself into the work."
"The whole difficulty is to conceive this act clearly without confusing it with a cognitive operation."
"a of the a,.e., of the a."
"Someone uses the pipe for smoking, the spoon for eating, the bell for summoning, and it is through the perception of a human act and another person that the perception of a cultural world could be verified."
"The problem is how to make time explicit as it comes into being and makes In order to arrive at authentic time, it is neither necessary nor sufficient to condemn the spatialization of time as does Bergson."
"Testing the legitimacy of an empirically grounded dualism by familiarizing oneself with the factual procedure of the psychologist and the physiologist."
"It essences as appearance."
