"x"
"but out of my ignorance."
"Well, all that was for love of a memory that made me stretch out my speech in longing for the past."
"The proposition that for one thing there is only one opposite, or the one stating that wisdom is different from temperance and that each is a part of virtue, and that in addition to being distinct they are dissimilar, both in themselves and in their powers or functions, just like the parts of a face?"
"Won't they consider Greece as their own and share the religion of the other Greeks?"
"<U+03B8><U+03C5> (ra¯ithumia), laziness: inertia of the soul; having no passion in the spirited part."
"For I don't understand it yet myself."
"So it looks as if I've won you over, my dear fellow, as I guessed I would, and there's no call for me to inquire what line the law of Sparta takes on this topic:"
"You surely haven't met someone else more beautiful, at least not in this city."
"He envies them and he's been pestering me for a long time he's demanding that I take his ambition seriously, and pay money to some expert who'll make him wise."
"But it is not right to reproach people for them, for no one is willfully evil."
"And because of these things, isn't a man like that inevitably fated either to be killed by his enemies or to be transformed from a man into a wolf by becoming a tyrant?"
"It is likely that those who established the mystic rites for us were not inferior persons but were speaking in riddles long ago when they said that whoever arrives in the underworld uninitiated and unsanctified will wallow in the mire, whereas he who arrives there purified and initiated will dwell with the gods."
"They were angry because we entrusted the city to him"
"That the difference between the nature of the good and everything else is this?."
"But now, unless they both love each other, neither is a friend.' '"
"that's sober enough to prefer a modest competence to wealth."
"the maker of the laws under which a city is to be governed."
"No, Socrates, that's not the case at all!"
"Some of our mountains can now grow just barely enough for bees, but it was not so long ago that lofty trees grew there."
"First of all, with regard to Syracuse, his native city, after having cleansed her of her servitude and put on her the garment of freedom, he would have made every effort to adorn her citizens with the best and most suitable laws."
"The remaining souls are all eagerly straining to keep up, but are unable to rise; they are carried around below the surface, trampling and striking one another as each tries to get ahead of the others."
"Those whom everyone agrees to be courageous he attempts to deprive of that distinction."
"But let's make a fresh start."
"We say this is impossible, yet their experience of this simple minded moderation turns out to be similar: they fear to be deprived of other pleasures which they Phaedo desire, so they keep away from some pleasures because they are overcome by others."
"What wise things do they understand?'"
"We are wrong when we say they 'are', since nothing ever is, but everything is coming to be."
"Just so with our discussion of love: Whether its definition was or was not correct, at least it allowed the speech to proceed clearly and consistently with itself."
"And it certainly must provide us with something good?"
"Well then, what do you think oratory is?"
"But to forge an association between reason and those pleasures that are forever involved with foolishness and other kinds of vice"
"Would you like us to see how this double method and the single work out when applied to legislation?"
"Then when a man judges, the objects of his judgment are necessarily either things which he knows or things which he doesn't know?"
"besides, you can probably imagine the later stages from what I've told you so far."
"Or is it in the nature of practice to grasp truth less well than theory does, even if some people don't think so?"
"Each citizen must take his two shares and distribute them at his discretion to the slaves and free persons in his charge (quality and quantity being up to him)."
"Obviously, Socrates, the soul resembles the divine, and the body resembles the mortal."
"Isn't that a divine and pleasant life, while it lasts?"
"You must think of me now as eager to serve your interests, too."
"though it is (that's obvious"
"An epigram in the Palatine Anthology,. modified."
"Do you think a man would be behaving unjustly or not if he were to pay money to commit adultery with his neighbor's wife, when in fact both the city and its laws forbid it?' '"
"'I would have to admit it, Socrates.' '"
"Then for those in that state, with such intentions, these are things which it is better not to know."
"The difference is that I attend men and not women, and that I watch over the labor of their souls, not of their bodies."
"Ought we at the same time to include the inexact and impure science of the false yardstick and circle, and add it to the mixture?"
"And he said that the one who was asked responded: 'He hasn't arrived here yet and never will, for this too was one of the terrible sights we saw."
"No one should incur expense beyond his means: that is, no more than a mina in the case of the wealthiest class, half a mina for the next and so on down the scale according to class."
"The people those who work with their own hands are the third class."
"We say that a maker of an image an imitator knows nothing about that which is but only about its appearance."
"I think we can be pretty sure that someone understands something when he can show that he has made someone else understand it."
"Today, we'll use this wisdom and finish our examination of names, but tomorrow, if the rest of you agree, we'll exorcise it and purify ourselves, as soon as we've found someone whether priest or wise man who is clever at that kind of purification."
"Paeans' made up a third category, and there was also a fourth, called a 'dithyramb' (whose theme was, I think, the birth of Dionysus)."
"Several of the other friends of Socrates mentioned here also appear in other dialogues."
"Then shall we conclude that all poetic imitators, beginning with Homer, imitate images of virtue and all the other things they write about and have no grasp of the truth?"
"He has Odysseus pitching into Agamemnon for ordering the ships to be put to sea just when the Achaeans were being hard put to it in their fight with the Trojans."
"And all the things we went through just now have their own capacity for that."
"Or is it unreasonable even to ask that question?"
"Instead he chose to die for Patroclus, and more than that, he did it for a man whose life was already over."
"Very much so', one would reply, correctly."
"Good for you,' I said. '"
"d<U+03B9>a <U+03BB>e<U+03BA>t<U+03BF><U+03C2> (dialektos), language, linguistic expression: human sound with letters; a common sign which is expressive, without music."
"They certainly will be benefited, Socrates."
"making', which can be used for any kind of production or creation."
"And yet I didn't suppose at the beginning that I'd be deceived intentionally by you, because I assumed you were a friend."
"You mean they'll live like those sick people who, through licentiousness, aren't willing to abandon their harmful way of life?"
"If someone kills a free man by his own hand, but the deed is done in anger, we must first make an internal distinction within this type of crime."
"Because, Polus, when Chaerephon asks you what craft Gorgias is knowledgeable in, you sing its praises as though someone were discrediting it."
"When we say 'he is thirsty,' we always have something in mind?"
"I have nothing to say, Socrates."
"Moreover, if we want to make an individual proof against all sorts of fears, it is by exposing him to fear, in a way sanctioned by the law, that we make him unafraid."
"But the beneficial is the maker of good."
"Now this is what appears to me: I think that you don't regard every kind of endurance as courage."
"But if a man really does not love you, if it is only because of his excellence that he got what he asked for, then he won't be jealous of the people who spend time with you."
"So, once the souls were of necessity implanted in bodies, and these bodies had things coming to them and leaving them, the first innate capacity they would of necessity come to have would be sense perception, which arises out of forceful disturbances."
"What I mean is this: aren't some painters better or worse than others?"
"There's something really divine about this place, so don't be surprised if I'm quite taken by the Nymphs' madness as I go on with the speech."
"It is,' said Zeno. '"
"For if such a thing exists, and this one thing is not the art of the carpenter, the blacksmith, or the potter, but justice, and temperance, and piety what I may collectively term the virtue of a man, and if this is the thing which everyone should share in and with which every man should act whenever he wants to learn anything or do anything, but should not act without it, and if we should instruct and punish those who do not share in it, man, woman, and child, until their punishment makes them better, and should exile from our cities or execute whoever doesn't respond to punishment and instruction; if this is the case, if such is the nature of this thing, and good men give their sons an education in everything"
"If the family suffers from such a dearth of relatives that not even a grandson either of the deceased's brother or of the son of the deceased's grandfather exists, then in consultation with her guardians the girl may single out of her own free choice any other citizen, provided he does not object, who should then become the deceased's heir and the daughter's bridegroom."
"Will he be sufficiently versed in science if he knows the definition of the circle and of the divine sphere itself but cannot recognize the human sphere and these our circles, using even in housebuilding those other yardsticks and those circles?"
"Critias ancestors before them, over their decisions concerning war and their other actions, but that they should cede leadership to the royal family of Atlantis; and, finally, that the king should have power to put none of his kinsmen to death, if he could not obtain the approval of the majority of the ten kings."
"Therefore, if being filled with what is appropriate to our nature is pleasure, that which is more filled with things that are more enjoys more really"
"Such derived motion will therefore come second, or as far down the list as you fancy relegating it, being a mere change in matter that quite literally 'has no soul'."
"About this that every man and child, free man and slave, male and female in fact, the whole state is in duty bound never to stop repeating to each other the char we have described."
"So it turns out that only what is neither good nor bad is friend to the good, and only to the good.' '"
"In the same way, the best judges will be those who have associated with people whose natures are of every kind."
"The point from which our digression brought us to where we are now."
"But isn't it strange if there really is such a thing?"
"And he decreed that the outer movement should be the movement of the Same, while the inner one should be that of the Different."
"Well then, Socrates, he said, when you have knowledge, do you have it of something, or not?"
"They must be received at trading posts and harbors and in public buildings outside but not far from the state by officials appointed for the purpose, who should (a) take good care that none of this category of visitor introduces any novel custom, (b) handle with proper impartiality the lawsuits that affect them, and (c) keep intercourse with them down to the unavoidable minimum."
"That is most certainly what I do say."
"And so, to preserve all of the seed, he fenced it in with a stony enclosure."
"The last two together we call opinion, the other two, intellect."
"Aren't there rulers and people in them, as well as in ours?"
"But as regards their being the fact that they are their opposition to one another, and the being, again, of this opposition, the matter is different."
"And if you could not treat them in this fashion, then they would not be yours?"
"Perhaps we shall, my friend, since over time we have come to share your hope that we may reach the full truth in these matters."
"In our study of the world order we have traced all our discoveries, including prophecy and health restoring medicine, from those divine realities to human levels, and we have also acquired all the other related disciplines."
"And further still it will be necessary to establish a law against all the following things."
"All right so far?' 'Yes.'"
"It certainly did, Socrates."
"I was entranced and just looked at him for a long time as if he were going to say more."
"But his voice is so deep that it set up a reverberation in the room that blurred what was being said."
"Our reason is that without the necessary, those other objects, about which we are serious, cannot on their own be discerned, and hence cannot be comprehended or partaken of in any other way."
"And we agreed a little while ago that profit is the opposite of loss, which is bad?"
"And any exponent of this argument will say he's right, for someone who didn't want to do injustice, given this sort of opportunity, and who didn't touch other people's property would be thought wretched and stupid by everyone aware of the situation, though, of course, they'd praise him in public, deceiving each other for fear of suffering injustice."
"Take this for discussion painting is a subject to be mastered as a whole, isn't it?"
": it's supremely important, because in effect we've got back to arguing about the criteria of justice and injustice."
"not because we desire what comes from it, but because we welcome it for its own sake joy, for example, and all the harmless pleasures that have no results beyond the joy of having them?"
"He is giver of kindness, never of meanness."
"Won't he be filled with impractical expectations and think himself capable of managing the affairs, not only of the Greeks, but of the barbarians as well?"
"Clearly one who is to praise it well must contemplate it after he has, in thought, been transported into that time when the whole of Asia was already subject to a third Persian king."
"But by changing places does it come to be here at one time, there at another, and move in this way?' '"
"And such a settlement is called a city."
"By the self controlled you mean the stupid ones!"
", I might add, is strictly parallel to a serious issue in my own field, namely, the problem of regulating the appetite so as to be able to enjoy a fine meal without unhealthy aftereffects."
"What exactly is it?'"
"Plato, as author of the work, is responsible for all Timaeus' theories."
"Yes; otherwise, my friend, it will turn out that, in their view, things are both moving and standing still; and it will be no more correct to say that all things are in motion than to say that all things stand still."
"; for there are many hindrances to knowledge, the obscurity of the subject and the brevity of human life'."
"It looks as if that is what we must say, according to the theory, at any rate."
"Isn't it obviously the women exercising naked in the palestras with the men?"
"See Herodotus, Histories for the story of Arion's rescue by the dolphin."
"Now, after both these conflicting positions have been set up against each other, we threatened you in jest that we would not let you go home before the deliberation of these questions had reached its satisfactory limit."
"No, these are the ones."
"Then it would be appropriate, Glaucon, to legislate this subject for those who are going to share in the highest offices in the city and to persuade them to turn to calculation and take it up, not as laymen do, but staying with it until they reach the study of the natures of the numbers by means of understanding itself, nor like tradesmen and retailers, for the sake of buying and selling, but for the sake of war and for ease in turning the soul around, away from becoming and towards truth and being."
"Speeches about diseases, that is?"
"Thus I thought that it was prop for a sensible man to give advice on topics of this sort and not on the matters on which you invite me to give advice."
"But what of the equals themselves?"
"Then do you notice the same thing about this subject that I do?"
"Well, it seems that in the same way we have now separated off those things that are different from the expert knowledge of statesmanship, and those that are alien and hostile to it, and that there remain those that."
"and you agreed to associate with him."
"I don't know what to answer."
"Parmenides than before in relation to those things it was previously older than?' 'Younger.' '"
"But in another sense he 'has' none of them; it is only that he has acquired a certain power in respect of them, because he has got them under his control in an enclosure of his own."
"And vision, I take it, best of men, if it actually sees itself, will have to have some color?"
"Just consider this argument: do you think it has any relevance at all?"
"Far from it, for he is quite old."
"You should know, especially as he has been born and brought up in your house."
"Then what comes next?"
"I suppose it must be the one that issues directions in relation to living creatures."
"Poros, the son of Metis, was there among them."
"So after all that, what's the next point I'd like made?"
"What could those gifts from us to the gods be, Euthyphro?"
"the qualities a virtuous man should have and the customary activities in which he should engage; and"
"Likewise the same things are not beautiful and ugly to everybody, but rather different things strike different people in different ways. '"
"And this again is surely right and proper."
"Anyone who is caught should be thought inept, for the extreme of injustice is to be believed to be just without being just."
"It is as if he had caught an eye disease from someone else, but could not identify the cause; he does not realize that he is seeing himself in the lover as in a mirror."
"Is it your view that the wise are those who know what should be done and said?"
"who they should be (provided they are ready and willing to undertake the office), the choice of guardians put on record in this way"
"What follows, approximately, was the introduction to the long account I heard then."
"But an overwhelming number are mistaken about the third kind, which belongs to the soul, namely virtue, and believe that they are superior in virtue, although they are not."
"we are now discussing sufficiently seriously to control it by a set of rules and use it to cultivate moderate habits; suppose it permits a similar enjoyment of other pleasures on the same principle, seeing it simply as a device for mastering them."
"It follows that the man who wants to examine medicine should look for it where it is to be found, because I don't suppose he will discover it where it is not to be found, do you?' '"
"And that what we were saying earlier about being a friend was all just chatter, like a poem that trails on too long?'"
"And the invisible always remains the same, whereas the visible never does?"
"He does not represent."
"Clinias, my view is that the ancient lawgivers were too easygoing, and legislated on the basis of a superficial and inadequate appreciation of the human condition."
"But if the legitimate maneuvers of regular wrestling extricating the neck and hands and sides from entanglement are practiced for the sake of strength and health with a vigorous desire to win and without resort to undignified postures, then they are extremely useful, and we mustn't neglect them."
"Things in us do not have their power in relation to forms, nor do they have theirs in relation to us;"
"The most important point about everything that has some inherent attractive quality must be either this very quality or some kind of 'correctness' or (thirdly) its usefulness."
"They leap away sharply at first, but they become ridiculous by the end and go off uncrowned, with their ears drooping on their shoulders like those of exhausted dogs, while true runners, on the other hand, get to the end, collect the prizes, and are crowned."
"As far as my present beliefs go, if you speak in opposition to them, you will speak in vain."
"It would be right to say, then, that he has a share in the theoretical sort of knowledge?"
"Do not hurry; there is still some time."
"Tell me if I've missed anything: as far as I remember, you learned writing and lyre playing and wrestling, but you didn't want to learn aulos playing."
"Well, if that's the way it is, the two of us would not at all be in the wrong in having first attempted to see the nature of models as a whole in the specific case of a further insignificant model, with the intention then of bringing to the case of the king, which is of the greatest importance, something of the same form from less significant things somewhere, in an attempt once more through the use of a model to recognize in an expert, systematic way"
"Phocylides of Miletus was a mid sixth century elegiac and hexameter poet best known for his epigrams."
"And for this reason the one that is was shown to be many.'"
"It was King Minos, under the tutelage of Zeus, who established these laws for the benefit of the Cretans; he was a hero of legislation, and one must not believe the slanders heaped upon him by Athenian dramatists."
"Will that too, then, also be a friend for the sake of a friend?' '"
"That it isn't appropriate for any craft to seek what is to the advantage of anything except that of which it is the craft?"
"I take it that you'll listen carefully?"
"A man who has knowledge would be able to give an account of what he knows, or would he not?"
"We found, in the case of war, that your two political systems were superior to those of states with a more haphazard mode of government."
"Leading the way will be the primary form the tetrahedron the tiniest structure, whose elementary triangle is the one whose hypotenuse is twice the length of its shorter side."
"And what if I asked you how to spell 'Socrates', and you told me?"
"we who are ourselves each the measure of his own wisdom?"
"Must each of them contribute his own work for the common use of all?"
"Most admirable Polus, it's not for nothing that we get ourselves companions and sons."
"And if we didn't have any need of fire, it wouldn't be useful to us either."
"I'm not talking about some monster other than a horse that happens to be born from a horse but one that is a natural offspring of its kind."
"Don't oppose the boy any more in these things, Socrates; for Theages is right."
"At any rate, that's the physical and mental prime for both."
"I think that Archilochus' poem said it well: 'Men's thoughts are like the things they encounter.' '"
"And the others, too, all have number, if in fact they are others and not an other.' '"
"Not in any way the sort of thing people are used to saying."
"This is why I have never written on these subjects."
"It looked to me that Protagoras was embarrassed by Alcibiades' words, not to mention the insistence of Callias and practically the whole company."
"Because these people thought that 'Know thyself' was a piece of advice and not the god's greeting to those who enter, so, with the idea of dedicating some admonitions which were no less useful, they wrote these things and put them up."
"We'd get much the same result if we were incapable of having sexual intercourse without feeling ashamed; our shame would lead to infrequent indulgence, and infrequent indulgence would make the desire less compulsive."
"Accepting the conjectural restoration Dike¯. apophasis. ."
"Although little things are more difficult to see or hear than big, they are much easier, when there are only a few of them, to carry or control or look after."
"The second solid form the octahedron is constructed out of the same triangles which, however, are now arranged in eight equilateral triangles and produce a single solid angle out of four plane angles."
"And while the soul is forced to share with the sense organs their diseases and inflammations and the other internal ills of the body (since it is distributed among its pores), it longs for its native heavenly aether, nay, thirsts after it, striving upwards in hopes of feasting and dancing there."
"This English must be heard as having the same two readings."
"I'm sure you've brought into being more of the speeches that have been given during your lifetime than anyone else, whether you composed them yourself or in one way or another forced others to make them; with the single exception of Simmias the Theban, you are far ahead of the rest."
"And don't we also put a person to death, if we do, or banish him and confiscate his property because we suppose that doing these things is better for us than not doing them?"
"How could they be otherwise?. ."
"So if a legislator were able to discover a way of doing this"
"Etymologically: 'Stesichorus son of Good Speaker, from the Land of Desire.'"
"On this occasion we ought to leave the choice to Clinias, but we should not forget anyone else who may at some time be faced with such a choice and wish to adopt for his own purposes customs of his native country which he finds valuable."
"No one must import frankincense and similar foreign fragrant stuff used in religious ritual, or purple and similar dyes not native to the country, or materials for any other process which only needs imports from abroad for inessential purposes; nor, on the other hand, is anyone to export anything that it is essential to keep in the state."
"As it is, it is likely to have many forks and crossroads; and I base this judgment on the sacred rites and customs here."
"But when he'd left the camp he prayed at length to Apollo, calling him by his various titles and reminding him of his own services to him."
"One would certainly have no right to."
"I have convincing proof of this, for it is impossible that my familiar sign did not oppose me if I was not about to do what was right."
"So keep me company in the conversation I'm going to have."
"Look: when citizens come together and associate with each other, they obviously inflict many injuries; and to these the terms 'voluntary' and 'involuntary' can be freely applied."
"So, I think a wise supervisor, like yourself, will have to keep a close watch, to preserve balance and probability."
"And what a man should say, if he's a general, to encourage his troops?"
"All of these did that sacred island once bear in that age under a fostering sun products lovely, marvelous, and of abundant bounty."
"Why yes, it seems to me to be exactly as you say.' '"
"Do you suppose that Hesiod, if he referred to the sort of things you mentioned just now by both the term 'work' and the term 'do', would have said there was no disgrace in cobbling or selling salt fish or prostitution?"
"Hence human Cratylus beings alone among the animals are correctly named 'anthro¯pos' one who observes closely what he has seen (anathro¯n ha opo¯pe)."
"First, unwilling to tolerate an equal, one of them killed the other; next, he himself, driven out of his senses by liquor and lack of selfcontrol, was deprived of hisdominions by the Medes and 'the Eunuch' (as he was then called), to whom the idiot Cambyses was an object of contem"
"So tell me: when someone loves someone else, which of the two becomes the friend of the other, the one who loves or the one who is loved?"
"I am indeed deterred, for the reasons you mention, but I am even more appalled at those who have actually undertaken those studies, but in the wrong manner."
"And do you at the same time think that a man has knowledge of anything when he believes the same thing now to be part of one thing and now part of something else?"
"You might as well condemn chee out of hand when you heard somebody praising its merits as a food, without stopping to ask about what effect it has and how it is taken"
"Suppose it be granted that there is such a thing as deliberation; suppose it does not, as was discovered just now, prove identical with sheer incomprehension, guesswork, or making things up, no different, but just using a grander name for it."
"Where do we take people who behave unjustly and without discipline?"
"Since sophists do seem, I think, to know about the things they dispute about."
"And it doesn't consider a person more impressive because he exemplifies hunting by military expertise rather than by picking lice."
"But to see the soul as it is in truth, we must not study it as it is while it is maimed by its association with the body and other evils which is what we were doing earlier"
"Your job is to tell what it's about,"
"Very much so,' said Critias, 'since he is not only a philosopher but also, both in his own opinion and that of others, quite a poet.'"
"But consider this, Socrates: If our city hasn't got any money, how will it be able to fight a war, especially if it has to fight against a great and wealthy city?"
"I'll stop now that you've taken this oath."
"Or is it early days to be harsh?"
"makes me the most eager to go to school along with the boys."
"In any case, why need other men give you advice at all if you are competent to judge such matters?"
"Now, the correctness of every name we analyzed was intended to consist in its expressing the nature of one of the things that are."
"That's no reason to strike, stab, or kill one's own friends!"
"But there are sexual urges too of boys and girls and heterosexual love among adults."
"They say that all that there is alternates, and that sometimes it's one and friendly under Aphrodite's influence, but at other times it's many and at war with itself because of some kind of strife."
"But then the life of those people you call happiest is a strange one, too."
"Doesn't it follow that some names are finely made, while others are made badly?"
"That's a fair request."
"We have not defined the difference between these two categories of wrongs, voluntary and involuntary."
"Now I understand better"
"But, seriously, the cause of love is as I have said, and this is how lovers really feel. '"
"But Gorgias and Prodicus each made more money from wisdom than any craftsman of any kind ever made from his skill."
"The wisdom it acquired was for staying alive; wisdom for living together in society, political wisdom, it did not acquire, because that was in the keeping of Zeus."
"(for we have granted that he knows all numbers)."
"But some of them persuade themselves that they have already sufficiently heard the whole of it and need make no further effort."
"Gorgias, I take it that you, like me, have experienced many discussions and that you've observed this sort of thing about them: it's not easy for the participants to define jointly what they're undertaking to discuss, and"
"(Local Magnesian gods, and sanctuaries of other ancient deities who are still remembered, must be honored as they were in earlier generations.)"
"Then, Glaucon, we must station ourselves like hunters surrounding a wood and focus our understanding, so that justice doesn't escape us and vanish into obscurity, for obviously it's around here somewhere."
"It seems that it's the job of one man, and one skill, to know all these things: himself, his belongings, and his belongings' belongings."
"This backward movement is inborn in it from necessity, for the following reason."
"If that is true, that the living come back from the dead, then surely our souls must exist there, for they could not come back if they did not exist, and this is a sufficient proof that these things are so if it truly appears that the living never come from any other source than from the dead."
"If however a slave, in self defense, kills a free man, he should be subject to the same laws as the parricide ."
"Answer the next question, however."
"But without actually being wise since that appeared impossible."
"Is the friend the one who loves or the one loved?"
"Surely there are many other diseases besides these?"
"Now since they are men, whom do you have in mind to supervise them?"
"By god, it certainly will."
"Well, my friend, a good hunter ought to pursue the trail and not give up."
"A year later a trireme arrived with letters from you,"
"Then if an ox is present with you, you are an ox?"
"For then it appeared that all four kinds of bodies could turn into one another by successive stages."
"An action or a man dear to the gods is pious, but an action or a man hated by the gods is impious."
"Do we recall that the older comes to be older than something that comes to be younger?'"
"No one would think a man was talking nonsense in saying that."
"But if as some people think true opinion does not differ in any way from understanding, then all the things we perceive through our bodily senses must be assumed to be the most stable things there are."
"Those guys are just babbling about things up in the sky and talking philosophical nonsense.'"
"As to the other part, I wouldn't even think that Lysias himself could be satisfied with it."
"To be upset for Axiochus, about what neither does nor will concern Axiochus, is pointless distress, just as if you were to be upset about Scylla, or the Centaur, which, as far as you're concerned, neither exist now, nor will exist later, after your death."
"And it would seem to be a pleasant constitution, which lacks rulers but not variety and which distributes a sort of equality to both equals and unequals alike."
"Will your soldiers do things of this sort to their enemies?"
"C., in which the Athenian invasion force was almost totally lost."
"but then, when it remembers the boy in his beauty, it recovers its joy."
"For if it were, it couldn't be the being of the one, nor could the one partake of it."
"Acute observers have known this for a long time now: To be a Spartan is to be a philosopher much more than to be an athlete."
"That is why they were the sort of people we have described."
"And the man who does what he ought is temperate, isn't he?'"
"What's more, my friend, both of them seem somehow to have a certain kinship with me."
"Sometimes they take on the appearance of statesmen, and sometimes of sophists."
"his most particular subjects right and wrong, justice and injustice in the lawcourts."
"Suppose two lovers are lying together and Hephaest stands over them with his mending tools, asking, 'What is it you human beings really want from each other?'"
"It's the story about the most magnificent thing our city has ever done,' replied Critias, 'an accomplishment that deserves to be known far better than any of her other achievements."
"Or suppose a dinner is being prepared."
"But it would be suitable enough for them and they would profit more by it."
"the gift of good things given for virtuous deeds; the dignity conferred by virtue; dignified bearing; the cultivation of one's dignity."
"So he doesn't expect to profit from food that is of no value."
"Now I want you to suppose, for the sake of the argument, that we have in our souls a block of wax, larger in one person, smaller in another, and of purer wax in one case, dirtier in another; in some men rather hard, in others rather soft, while in some it is of the proper consistency."
"Which do you say is the better man, and in what respect?"
"Those that are larger contract the ray of sight while those that are smaller, on the other hand, dilate it, and so are 'cousin' to what is cold or hot in the case of the flesh, and, in the case of the tongue, with what is sour, or with all those things that generate heat and that we have therefore called 'pungent.'"
"Critias was finding it very hard to go along with these arguments, that not everything we had mentioned could be property."
"Every living creature has an instinctive love of satisfying this desire whenever it occurs, and the craving to do so can fill a man's whole being, so that he remains quite unmoved by the plea that he should do anything except satisfy his lust for the pleasures of the body, so as to make himself immune to all discomfort."
"Now doesn't it sometimes happen that when the same wind is blowing, one of us feels cold and the other not?"
"Do you think,' the young man said, 'that excellence can be taught, or is it innate?'."
"Our version of the story of Oedipus is that when he was insulted by his sons he called down a curse on them"
"In fact, Aristophanes fell asleep in the middle of the discussion, and very soon thereafter, as day was breaking, Agathon also drifted off."
"Or would you be prepared to insist that every color appears to a dog, or to any other animal, the same as it appears to you?"
"This group includes Parmenides of Elea (the Visitor, of course, comes from there)."
"We are now half way through our examination of singing and dancing."
"A guardian or official with even the slightest sense has a duty to give close attention to all these warnings, and take great care over the training and education of orphans, helping them in every possible way, just as if he were contributing to the good of his own self and family."
"And of course we said that justice would be what was left over when we had found the other three."
"If they really know how to destroy men so as to make good and sensible people out of bad and stupid ones, and the two of them have either found out for themselves or learned from someone else a kind of ruin or destruction by which they do away with a bad man and render him good, if, as I say, they know how to do this"
"Hermes asked Zeus how he should distribute shame and justice to humans. '"
"I wouldn't say so, Socrates."
"Anacreon and Simonides were lyric poets of the sixth and early fifth centuries."
"Shall we discuss the other half?"
"Well, is that a fair reply?"
"However, mustn't we first agree about whether our proposals are possible or not?"
"But isn't the charioteer's skill also a kind of wisdom?"
"He admires the man and sends him off to the Isles of the Blessed."
"As far as I'm concerned, nothing I've said is set in stone."
": let's treat this obsession as the first obstacle that prevents states from following an adequate course of training, either for military or for any other purposes: naturally decent folk are turned into traders or merchant venturers or just plain servants, and bold fellows are made into robbers and burglars, and become bellicose and overbearing."
"After all, there's no offense in doing that."
"At that point Phaedrus interrupted: 'Agathon, my friend, if you answer Socrates, he'll no longer care whether we get anywhere with what we're doing here, so long as he has a partner for discussion."
"So it looks as though our earlier statements were true, that we don't know any man who has proved to be good at politics in this city."
"e<U+03C5> da<U+03B9> <U+03BF><U+03BD><U+03B9> (eudaimonia), success in life:"
"The Prytaneum was the magistrates' hall or town hall of Athens in which public entertainments were given, particularly to Olympian victors on their return home."
"'Stop joking, Apollodorus,' he replied. '"
"I think that is the case, said Cebes."
"Then knowledge seems to provide men not only with good fortune but also with well doing, in every case of possession or action."
"Cratylus Aren't all the works performed by thought and understanding praiseworthy, while those that aren't are blameworthy?"
"before he has well and truly tested every last detail."
"And now it appears that you do not understand that Simonides may well have not conceived of the word 'hard' as you do."
"Plato probably means Theopompus, a king of Sparta in the eighth century."
"We'll say that the expertise of the part of acquisition, exchange, selling, wholesaling, and soul wholesaling, dealing in words and learning that have to do with virtue"
"that are worth discussing, each with faults that we should observe, and we should do the same for the people who are like them."
"That's what I'll have to do,' I said, and, taking Ctesippus with me, I went into the wrestling school, followed by the others."
"But can't they also be so deprived by theft, magic spells, and compulsion?"
"Not at all,' he replied. '"
"No, it seems to me that you are right in calling the sort of thing you mentioned dialectic; but, it seems to me, rhetoric still eludes us."
"The subject has outstanding charm."
"This was what I thought myself, but I wanted you to think it too."
"And again a little earlier I said that it is unutterable, unsayable, and inexpressible in speech."
"Whenever we speak of those which are not, aren't we trying to apply numerical plurality to them?"
"Now, wasn't paying what's due getting rid of the worst thing there is, corruption?"
"Or do we need the famous lines as a reminder about wrath:. ."
"I promise you, you'll pay for this!"
"Some of these issues recur in the in Socrates' questions to Agathon and in Diotima's remarks."
"In a race, then, one who accomplishes bad things involuntarily is more worthless than one who does them voluntarily?"
"But in what way would the division following this be made?"
"The man with the field, I suppose.' '"
"Take any social gathering you like, which functions naturally under a leader and serves a useful purpose under his guidance: what are we to think of the observer who praises or censures it although he has never seen it gathered together and running properly under its leader, but always with bad leaders or none at all?"
"If, that is to say, truth rather than majority opinion is to settle these questions."
"In that case, since it's not the only one to produce this product but other crafts do it too, we'd do right to repeat to our speaker"
"The same joke applies to all who spend their lives in philosophy."
"Tell me then, by Zeus, how Socrates tackled the argument."
"So which of these 'incorrect' constitutions is least difficult to live with, given that they are all difficult, and which the heaviest to bear?"
"The boy does not even realize that his lover is a different man."
"Therefore, the right kind of love has nothing mad or licentious about it?"
"That seems so, at any rate."
"Parmenides 'Socrates, in what way, then, will the other things get a share of your forms, if they can do so neither by getting parts nor by getting wholes?' '"
"I'll point out, then, if you can grasp it, that some sense perceptions don't summon the understanding to look into them, because the judgment of sense perception is itself adequate, while others encourage it in every way to look into them, because sense perception seems to produce no sound result."
"That those who escaped the disaster must have been pretty nearly all hill shepherds a few embers of mankind preserved, I imagine, on the tops of mountains."
"Yes, that's all very reasonable."
"For measure and proportion manifest themselves in all areas as beauty and virtue."
"What's more, their rule extended even inside the strait, over Libya as far as Egypt, and over Europe as far as Tyrrhenia."
"But if that is inconceivable, we had better pursue the alternative account and affirm, as we have said often, that there is plenty of the unlimited in the universe as well as sufficient limit, and that there is, above them, a certain cause, of no small significance, that orders and coordinates the years, seasons, and months, and which has every right to the title of wisdom and reason."
"And what is still far stranger than that"
"Let me therefore try to carry his argument to its logical conclusion."
"His human nature will always drive him to look to his own advantage and the lining of his own pocket."
"I have certainly often admired Socrates, Echecrates, but never more than on this occasion."
"Suppose someone asks 'Sir, do all things stand still, and does nothing move?"
"Theuth came to exhibit his arts to him and urged him to disseminate them to all the Egyptians."
"Well sir, don't you think that the gods' existence is an easy truth to explain?"
"Then is it good advice?"
"One should fulfill it."
"No, I don't think either of us would be able to dispute that."
"But the bad is not susceptible to becoming bad; it must always be bad."
"I don't yet understand the first of them, but the other seems clear enough, since it is in harmony with everything we said before."
"The other two parties to the discussion are elderly and undistinguished sons of distinguished statesmen and generals of earlier times"
"The source of the passage is unknown."
"I'm afraid I'll seem insane to you if I'm always shifting my position back and forth, given what I've said."
"While your possessions are passing."
"But until this is our accepted opinion, we cannot leave this conviction unexamined."
"I saw clearly that they were cheating me."
"You mean if the body is not moved in either direction, Socrates?"
"And it becomes deficient where something is taken away from it.'"
"This stone not only pulls those rings, if they're iron, it also puts power in the rings, so that they in turn can do just what the stone does pull other rings so that there's sometimes a very long chain of iron pieces and rings hanging from one another."
"Never not if we believe our own advice, anyway, and we'll have to ensure the growth of virtue in the state by some other means."
"There should be nothing to be ashamed of in helping oneself inconspicuously to apples and pears and pomegranates and so on, but."
"(no one could now be ignorant of that)."
"It certainly does appear not.' '"
"It should also be compared with the myth in Socrates' second speech in the Phaedrus."
"Consider whether this hypothesis must not signify that the one is such as to have parts.' '"
"we must let out every reef, as they say, and raise full cry."
"Nor should we be disconcerted if we find a lot of other expressions of which the same is true.)"
"Then each office has to be given its particular laws: you have to decide which laws will be appropriate in each case, and the number and type required."
"Otherwise, as I've been saying all along, his names wouldn't be names at all."
"what piety is, whether being loved by the gods or having some other quality we shall not quarrel about that but be keen to tell me what the pious and the impious are."
"What occurrence do you mean?"
"it is only things like these which are mine."
"That courage is needed, you will discover yourself, when you take my place."
"Feel the freshness of the air; how pretty and pleasant it is; how it echoes with the summery, sweet song of the cicadas' chorus!"
",' then you'll see clearly, I think, that no one could answer a question framed like that."
"Hence, we should believe them on both matters or neither."
"You will find the same in the matter of children: some people pray to have them, and when they have them they bring them utter disaster and grief."
"For this reason, he'd be more respectable than many, but the true virtue of a single minded and harmonious soul far escapes him."
"As they grow older and their souls begin to reach maturity, they should increase their mental exercises."
"Tell me, have you got a dog?"
"Isn't it so in all cases, especially if we attempted to take up public practice and called on each other, thinking we were capable doctors?"
"All that's left now is to examine what wealth itself is; unless you first determine this you won't even be able to reach an agreement on whether it's bad or good."
"From this you may understand what I mean by shape, for I say this of every shape, that a shape is that which limits a solid; in a word, a shape is the limit of a solid."
"In all these cases to found a state and give it laws is, in some ways, comparatively easy, but in others it's rather difficult."
"Remember we said that the latter saw and loved beautiful sounds and colors and the like but wouldn't allow the beautiful itself to be anything?"
"So, if we forget about the original meter we can put together his meaning as this: he knew a lot of things, but it was wrong for him to know them all."
"For the filling with drink, I think."
"And it would be taken away if we admitted that there's no blending of anything with anything else."
"First, none of them should possess any private property beyond what is wholly necessary."
"And a man who is judging some one thing is judging something which is?"
"But do you think that anyone is going to let you off without asking you what this most important subject is and what it concerns?"
"In many they call them despots, but in democracies they are called just this rulers."
"And when he had compounded it all, he divided the mixture into a number of souls equal to the number of the stars and assigned each soul to a star."
"Because you and I are about to discuss whether a boy should make friends with a man who loves him rather than with one who does not, we should agree on defining what love is and what effects it has."
"Well, then, do you think you could divide them in that way?"
"This is the sort of question one should begin with in inquiring into any subject."
"Alternatively, besides believing that all things are 'empty of gods, he may be a prey to an uncontrollable urge to experience pleasure and avoid pain, and he may have a retentive memory and be capable of shrewd insights."
"But I'm apparently held back by my crazy luck."
"so¯ma' itself suggests until the penalty is paid; for, on this view, not even a single letter of the word needs to be changed."
"Therefore, you must speak and ask whatever you want as long as the authorities allow it.'"
"Many lecherous men have come from this class, and so do the lecherous women who run after men."
"First, in their contracts with one another, you'll never find, when the partnership ends, that a just partner has got more than an unjust one, but less."
"Once he has looked at him, his chill gives way to sweating and a high fever, because the stream of beauty that pours into him through his eyes warms him up and waters the growth of his wings."
"After death, when they have grown wings and become weightless, they have won the first of three rounds in these, the true Olympic Contests."
"This makes it clear that the bad movement in question is a restrained or hindered motion, whose possession by a soul causes it to become filled with vice."
"And with error rooted out and rightness in control, men so circumstanced would necessarily fare admirably and well in all their doings and, faring well, they would be happy."
"We insist that the highest office in the service of the gods must be allocated to the man who is best at obeying the established laws and wins that sort of victory in the state; the man who wins the second prize must be given second rank in that service, and so on, the remaining posts being allocated in order on the same system."
"All that seems completely unreasonable."
"For example, knowledge of health or disease isn't healthy or diseased, and knowledge of good and bad doesn't itself become good or bad."
"Socrates/Glaucon of the feasibility of our proposal until later."
"No, I certainly don't, Socrates."
"Well, it sounds fine enough."
"Our brief is to compose a legal code on the basis of such local laws as we find satisfactory, and to use foreign laws as well the fact that they are not Cretan must not count against them,"
"His survey completed, the author of the legal code will appoint guardians (some of whom will have."
"Accepting Crito's description of the sophists' activities as 'philosophy', this person denounces it as 'of no value whatsoever', as 'worthless' and 'ridiculous'."
"a. Cratylus clear that it means 'hesis' ('a going forth'), since in ancient times we used 'e' in place of 'e¯'."
"And they would not be good in the same way if they did not have the same virtue."
"And it is like it, isn't it?"
"It would clearly be neither sight nor hearing, but something else."
"Now in this Euphraeus can perhaps be of most use to you, though he will be a manly aid in other respects as well; I believe that he can search out the words appropriate to monarchy as well as any man in your service."
"If some dispute arises about the duties and interests of the parties, they must choose ten of the Guardians of the as arbitrators, and abide by their decisions on the points referred to them."
"Then if anyone tries to tell us that the complex can be known and expressed, while the contrary is true of the element, we had better not listen to him."
"In particular, it seems that according to the common story wine was given to men as a means of taking vengeance on us"
"And he also thinks that only what is said for the sake of understanding and learning, what is truly written in the soul concerning what is just, noble, and good can be clear, perfect, and worth serious attention: Such discourses should be called his own legitimate children"
"How do you mean, Anytus?"
"First there are those who compute sums of quite unequal units, such as two armies or two herds of cattle, regardless whether they are tiny or huge."
"That, too, was discussed."
"Those things I take it are not beautiful in a relative sense, as others are, but are by their very nature forever beautiful by themselves."
"Therefore, the one itself, chopped up by being, is many and unlimited in multitude.' '"
"For throughout its existence it is completely passive, and its formation has not entrusted it with a natural ability to discern and reflect upon any of its own characteristics, by revolving within and about itself, repelling movement from without and exercising its own inherent movement."
"It is also the most 'crass', in that it affects the most extensive element in the soul (the element that experiences pleasure and pain, which corresponds to the most extensive part of a state, the common people)."
"And if it is so, then you realize that there would always be the same souls, for they couldn't be made fewer if none is destroyed, and they couldn't be made more numerous either."
"I was therefore very interested in what would come next after such arguments; at first I asked not you, Socrates, but your companions and fellow enthusiasts, or friends, or whatever we should call their relationship to you."
"Then it seems that we should discuss the intertwining that belongs to kingship of what kind it is, and in what way it intertwines to render us what sort of fabric."
"But I'm still a little uneasy with it."
"Yes, it's possible.' '"
"First, then, let's settle exactly what it is that you and I intend to discuss."
"when he said what justice is, for he thought it just to give to each what is appropriate to him, and this is what he called giving him what is owed to him."
"Then we'll need a marketplace and a currency for such exchange."
"But I think that's so, Socrates."
"Is it the same with everything else too?' 'Apparently.' '"
"the sacred arts of the vast aether."
"that his own son become the best he can be."
"Do some of these produce health in the body, or strength, or some other bodily excellence, and are these pleasures good, while those that produce the opposites of these things are bad?"
"The other kind is a matter of spells and charms and 'enchantments': not only are the victims persuaded that they are being seriously injured by people with magic influence, but even the perpetrators themselves are convinced that it really is in their power to inflict injury by these methods."
"But besides being harmful to his boyfriend, a lover is simply disgusting to spend the day with. '"
"Listen to the motive Lysis for my mantic utterance."
"They must surely have been well informed about their own ancestors."
"But rather let's now try to convince ourselves that it is possible and how it is possible, and let the rest go."
"Equality of birth in the natural order makes us seek equality of rights in the legal and defer to each other only in the name of reputation for goodness and wisdom. '"
"After that you will hear what I, for my part, regard as true pleasures, so that through an examination of these two opposed points of view, we can reach a decision about the power of pleasure."
": these forms are like patterns set in nature, and."
"So a state that knows its business should reserve at least one day per month (and more than one, if the authorities think fit) for military maneuvers, to be held without regard for the weather, come"
"So as I said just now, on the score of pleasure or the lack of it, neither type is superior nor inferior to the other."
"Suppose the gods were in a mood to give whatever was asked; it might be just like the case of Oedipus who blurted out the prayer that his sons might take arms to settle their inheritance."
"Then I'll have to go back to what should perhaps have been said in sequence, although it may be that this way of doing things is in fact right and that after the completion of the male drama, so to speak, we should then go through the female one especially as you insist on it so urgently."
"Its curriculum must be decided by those who have already mastered the necessary branches of knowledge and only previous instruction and plenty of intimate discussion will settle such matters as that."
"For of Dion I know, as surely as a man can know anything about his fellow men, that if he had held the power he would not have been diverted from using it for the following purposes."
"Isn't that what we agreed?' '"
"On the other hand, it will be afraid to appoint wise people as rulers, on the grounds that they are no longer simple and earnest but mixed, and will incline towards spirited and simpler people, who are more naturally."
"But in front of you he talks as if he didn't know what I want."
"And you should know that this is the plain difference between them and others, namely,"
"Do you know where you should look to see the evildoings of such people?"
"For one thing, it is a good idea for the young not to spend their time in the pursuits"
"When a craftsman discovers the type of tool that is naturally suited for a given type of work, he must embody it in the material out of which he is making the tool."
"both I and all these people want him to become as good as possible."
"Motion has two forms, each an infinite multitude,."
"Epinomis Fortune for help,' as we say too."
"Now, realize that the same holds in the case of what we call the ordered universe."
"Whether the orator does or does not come off worse than the others because of this being so, we'll examine in a moment if it has any bearing on our argument."
"Doesn't it seem that way to you?' '"
"Well then, sir, in view of this conflict of opinion, what should we do about our own country?"
"But perhaps you thought the man who was taking him to task meant what he said as a reproach?"
"Is there anything they won't do or say to him to prevent him from being persuaded?"
"their fitting fate is to be hurled into Tartarus never to emerge from it."
"For example, medicine gives us health, navigation gives us safety while sailing, and so on with the others?."
"Then perhaps we had better take up a different line of inquiry; perhaps we should proceed not by way of knowing and not knowing, but by way of being and not being?"
"Those who maliciously and slanderously persuaded you who also, when persuaded themselves then persuaded others all those are most difficult to deal with: one cannot bring one of them into court or refute him; one must simply fight with shadows, as it were, in making one's defense, and crossexamine when no one answers."
"Nevertheless, I will not beg you to acquit me by bringing them here."
"Then the learners belong to those who acquire and not to those who have?"
"Sisyphus between some people and others with respect to deliberating well or being good deliberators, just as some people differ from others in all other areas of expertise as, for example, some carpenters differ from others, or some doctors from others, or some pipers from others, or as tradesmen in general differ from one another?"
"What else could it be?"
"He cannot search for what he knows"
"(a) People who perish in this way must be buried individually, with no one to share their grave."
"Yes at least as far as what someone my age can tell."
"It's appropriate to examine them like that."
"You have seen the man fighting in armor, Nicias and Laches."
"You men spare no pains in procuring wealth for yourselves, but you neither see to that your sons, to whom you are leaving this wealth, should know how to use it justly, nor do you find them teachers of justice (if justice can be taught), nor anybody to exercise and train them adequately (if it is acquired by exercise and training) nor indeed have you started by undergoing such treatment yourselves!."
"In a word, you find all kinds of terms and excuses so as not to reject anyone whose flower is in bloom."
"But they say he understands the business very much so and that he is a clever man and can compose clever speeches."
"Is there any that's different from these, or are they all like this?"
"In the second half of the dialogue we thus see a new Socrates, with new methods of argument and inquiry, not envisioned in such 'Socratic' dialogues as Euthyphro, Laches, and Charmides."
"Or don't you think that poets practice oratory in the theatres?"
"If he finds many injustices in his life, he awakes from sleep in terror, as children do, and lives in anticipation of bad things to come."
"How can I say that my coming to Sicily then was the beginning of it all?"
"Listen then,' I said, 'to my dream, to see whether it comes through horn or through ivory."
"Ever since I was a boy"
"I should be of no use, Socrates, and Euthyphro would not be superior to the majority of men, if I did not have accurate knowledge of all such things."
"But, visitor, how did living creatures come into being in that time?"
", that is, half the number."
"So thanks to the general corruption, that's the predicament we've got into at this point in our consideration of the law about sex."
"Or do you think he gave them both the names of streams (rheumata) merely by chance?"
"Reading bakcheio¯n in with acute accent on the second syllable."
"About limit, on the other hand, we did not trouble ourselves, neither that it has plurality nor whether it is one by nature."
"It is not the purpose of a juryman's office to give justice as a favor to whoever seems good to him, but to judge according to law, and this he has sworn to do."
"He must be bold enough to give instructions that the citizens are not to be allowed to possess any equipment that is not of standard size."
"And does the man exist who would rather be harmed than benefited by his associates?"
"Of the rest, some would be filled with an ill founded and quite unbecoming disdain, and some with an exaggerated and foolish elation, as if they had learned something grand."
"And in order to get clear about all this, understanding was compelled to see the big and the small, not as mixed up together, but as separate the opposite way from sight."
"We have to look it over."
"You claim to be knowledgeable in the craft of oratory and to be able to make someone else an orator, too."
"And so far as it is at all possible for a man to become thoroughly mortal, he cannot help but fully succeed in this, seeing that he has cultivated his mortality all along."
"No, it grows practically everything."
"I prefer nothing, unless it is true."
"pa would have survived."
"And as for making love, everybody would fight us; they'd say it is most pleasant, but that one should do it, if he does it at all, where no one will see, because it is the foulest thing to be seen.'"
"And aren't they composed of letters or elements?"
"You see that here he speaks as if virtue can be taught?"
"It's probably for this reason that we use 'anankaion' in the way we do because saying it is like trying to get through a ravine."
"As a result, whoever hears about them is doubtful and objects that they do not exist, and that, even if they do, they must by strict necessity be unknowable to human nature; and in saying this he seems to have a point; and, as we said, he is extraordinarily hard to win over."
"Thus neither of the two would be the good, but it could be assumed that one or the other of them is its cause."
"Hence, as Socrates makes clear, he is addressing the democratic people of Athens, and when the jury find him guilty and condemn him to death, they act as and for the Athenian people."
"but I had a strange feeling, an unaccustomed mixture of pleasure and pain at the same time as I reflected that he was just about to die."
"Isn't it the one that will turn away what harms us most?"
"And isn't everything else that has to do with virtue the same in both?"
"I will allow you to presuppose that the lover is less sane than the non lover and if you are able to add anything of value to complete what we already have in hand, you will stand in hammered gold beside the offering of the Cypselids in Olympia."
"First of all, if you remember, he had to be guided by the truth and always pursue it in every way, or else"
"So the money earner is not, in fact, doing his own work."
"The question is whether we shall say that this is or is not a matter of expertise."
"And I am still more vexed on behalf of the charm I took so much trouble to learn from the Thracian, if it should turn out to be worthless."
"Thirdly, as a third law, such people must behave with as much virtue and as little vice as possible while they share in the life of the state."
"In particular, the costume appropriate for such funeral dirges will not be garlands or trappings of gilt, but to polish off the topic as quickly as possible quite the opposite kind of thing."
"Very well, my friend."
"What must drilling be done with?"
"Socrates will drink whatever you put in front of him, but no one yet has seen him drunk.'"
"So should I take this back for you, that all men desire good things?"
"So I decided to turn off the main road to meet up with them and get together as quickly as possible."
"s<U+03C5> fe <U+03C1><U+03BF><U+03BD> (sumpheron)"
"And if you will live as we advise you to live, you will come to us as friends to friends, when your destiny conveys you here; but if you have neglected our advice and behaved as cowards, no one will welcome you."
"So what is the nature of rational motion?'"
"So what shall we call it?"
"If some of you know and others do not know, and if the latter need advice, then supposing that it is possible for a man of sense to give advice to those who are uninformed surely one man is enough to give advice to those of you who lack knowledge?"
"Did you not say that the virtue of a man consists of managing the city well, and that of a woman of managing the household?"
"that, if necessary, restitution may be made according to law) must be informed of his address."
"'Why don't you offer an encomium to Socrates?' '"
"You will now learn the origins of these names."
"The one by which he knows which one of the things are and have been and are to come?"
"fear in expectation of bad reputation."
"Please tell me what you mean by saying that oratory is an image of a part of politics."
"Now, courage is the opposite of cowardice.'"
"So what distinguishes good from bad writing?"
"Two squares are incommensurable in length if and only if their sides are incommensurable lines; the areas themselves may still be commensurable,.e.,"
"For if you deny it, you cannot agree that a name is correct if it expresses things by means of letters and syllables and you'll have to search for some other account of the correctness of names, since if you both deny it and accept this account of correctness, you'll contradict yourself."
"And I address this to you, Prodicus."
"And while an inferior doctor is adequate for people who are willing to follow a regimen and don't need drugs, when drugs are needed, we know that a bolder doctor is required."
"Sometimes, though rarely, a fourth kind of visitor arrives."
"Let's agree that philosophic natures always love the sort of learning that makes clear to them some feature of the being that always is and does not wander around between coming to be and decaying."
"And yet we haven't mentioned the greatest compulsion of all."
"Since medicine can put an end to a person's illness, it seems that sometimes medicine also may be classified as useful for virtue, if a person can acquire the sense of hearing through medicine.' '"
"Or do you think he begrudged him this, and deliberately did not pass on to him his own virtue?"
"These same regulations about the actual commission and mere plotting of a murder should apply when (a)"
"In the course of the fight it somehow got entangled in the rigging of the other ship"
"I should create a fac¸ade of illusory virtue around me to deceive those who come near, but keep behind it the greedy and crafty fox of the wise Archilochus.' '"
"Being emptied, he desires to be filled."
"If the speaker seems to me to be some worthless person, I neither ask questions nor do I care what he says."
"So, since it is of parts equal to itself, it would be equal to itself in multitude, but since it is of more and fewer parts, it would be more and fewer than itself in number.' '"
"Since it is impossible both to be and not to be the same thing, if I know one thing I know absolutely everything because I could not be both knowing and not knowing at the same time"
"By laboring less, it might be better able to join spirit in serving reason."
"It is something of this sort: By their nature wings have the power to lift up heavy things and raise them aloft where the gods all dwell, and"
"So can we define the two?"
"Nor would you call medicine wage earning, even if someone earns pay while healing?"
"Well then, does its capacity extend to anything more than taking over from the legislator king all those things that are established as lawful in relation to contracts, and judging by reference to these the things that have been prescribed as just and unjust, providing its own individual excellence by virtue of the fact that it would not be willing to decide the complaints of one citizen against another contrary to the prescription of the legislator through being overcome by presents of some sort, or fears, or feelings of compassion, or again by any enmity or friendship?"
"Well, let's start again."
"No juryman is to vote in a trial in which he has been put up as a witness and given evidence."
"I refused to retreat from a battle I myself had begun, and I needed to know just where matters stood."
"Axiochus something.)"
"Now, try to remember if you've heard anything helpful from Lysias or anybody else."
"That's why they gave a higher honor to Achilles than to Alcestis, and sent him to the Isles of the Blest."
"And since I had made up my mind to attend this man's classes too, I thought I had better give in for fear he might think me too uncouth to be his pupil."
"Furthermore, since there is a class of secondary structures to be found in nature, anyone who intends to understand diseases will have a second set of subjects to study."
"Moreover, don't the bravest of those who helped to establish his tyranny and who hold positions of power within it speak freely to each other and to him, criticizing what's happening?"
"That's the way it is, each appetite itself is only for its natural object, while the appetite for something of a certain sort depends on additions."
", we'll have our citizens fight each other armed man to man, two a side, and any number per team up to ten."
"Does he employ devices to produce persuasion about them, so that even though he doesn't know he seems, among those who don't know either, to know more than someone who actually does know?"
"The author reiterates in bold language his commitment to Forms, and, drawing upon an elaborate theory about the means of arriving at philosophical truth and the defectiveness of language to express it, he explains why he would never write any philosophical treatise."
"All that sort of hardship we simply have to endure rather than permit a change to the sort of political system which will make men worse.'"
"Tell us what you want,' he said."
"The next thing is for our opponents to join us in asking this question: what particular virtue have we in mind when we agree that the gods are good?"
"Rightly so, Socrates."
"But a sick man is, I imagine, on account of his disease.' '"
"Cratylus adopts the obscure 'naturalist' position that each name names only whatever it does 'by nature' no matter what the conventions in any community may be."
": what produces its own action; what is chosen for itself; what is achieved with thinking."
"His form of association was as I say, through discourses for education into virtue."
"Emending de to d'ei in and replacing the question mark in with a comma."
"And if it were of one measure, it would prove to be equal to its measure; but it was shown that it couldn't be equal to anything.' '"
"shall we say there is one sort of each of them or two?"
"Very frightened indeed."
"and Crete cultivates the intellect rather than the tongue."
"Of all these, any who have led their lives with justice will change to a better fate, and any who have led theirs with injustice, to a worse one."
"I would suppose it definitely has to be the case that those who know agree in accepting the same things, both Greeks and foreigners."
"is the most shameful thing, or that having my body or my purse cut is, and I affirm that to knock or cut me or my possessions unjustly is both more shameful and worse, and at the same time that to rob or enslave me or to break into my house or, to sum up, to commit any unjust act at all against me and"
"In addition, we must tell the story which is so strongly believed by so many people when they hear it from those who have made a serious study of such matters in their mystic ceremonies."
"But perhaps you'll ask, what argument would Protagoras himself bring to the help of his offspring."
"Indeed, it doesn't harmonize."
"And if it always is, it is immortal."
"do you mean it's something like this?"
"Whether it's true or not, I'll try to find out."
"And if something is done with strength, it is done strongly; if done with weakness, it is done weakly?'"
"On the contrary, they are different from each other by difference and otherness.'"
"That, in turn, appears to me to be so.' '"
"Now, Clinias, we ought to examine our own position again."
"They don't aim at what's most pleasant."
"Chaerephon doubts the truth of the legend, but Socrates argues that his doubt is unfounded; we are ignorant of the limits of divine power, which is unimaginably greater than human power and has shown itself to be capable of tremendous things."
"He'll pretend he doesn't know about mirrors or water or even sight, and he'll put his question to you only in terms of words."
": among the products of carding, when its material is drawn out to a certain length and has acquired breadth, do we say that there's a 'flock' of wool?"
"What, or what kind of thing, especially makes you consider asking that question?"
"He wants to know whether Ion speaks about Homer 'on the basis of knowledge or mastery':"
": Will our mixture be as good as it can be if we mix every kind of pleasure with every kind of intelligence?"
"Furthermore, it is not equal to the others either; for if it were equal, it would then both be, and be like them in respect of equality."
"But in addition to observing, they can serve and assist in everything to do with the war and help their mothers and fathers."
"Otherwise, the officials will ignore his remarks as irrelevant and instruct him to return to the issue before the court."
"Yet it won't be a huge settlement even if we add cowherds, shepherds, and other herdsmen in order that the farmers have cows to do their ploughing, the builders have oxen to share with the farmers in hauling their materials, and the weavers and cobblers have hides and fleeces to use."
"If there were some device by which we could put in charge of an army a commander who was completely fearless and imperturbable, this is what we should make every effort to do, surely?"
"will be neither good natured nor fortunate."
"No reason why not,' I said, 'if he will only come.' '"
"Such a demonstration would constitute just about the best and finest preamble our penal code could have."
"But if something is part of none, it cannot be a part, or anything else at all, of all those things of which it is no part of any.' '"
"That will be best both for the state and the union of your two hearths and homes, because it is infinitely better for the virtue of a man and wife if they balance and complement each other than if they are both at the same extreme."
"They emphatically refuse to allow any such material to already have some definite shape."
"Farewell and heed my warning; read this letter again and again, then burn it."
"Definitely,' they said. '"
"In English we normally speak of a hypothesis that something is the case."
"But we, beautifying the name, as we suppose, call him 'Hermes' nowadays."
"Then, Critias,' I replied, 'what benefit would we get from temperance if it is of this nature?"
"Well then, isn't it the same with high and low notes?"
"So dogs are benefited by dog breeding, cattle by cattle raising, and so with all the others."
"If it were going to be founded near the sea and have good harbors, and were deficient in a great number of crops instead of growing everything itself, then a very great savior indeed and lawgivers of divine stature would be needed to stop sophisticated and vicious characters developing on a grand scale: such a state would simply invite it."
"(euphrosune¯), cheerfulness: joy in doing what a temperate man does."
"It probably isn't easy."
"Instead, they have taken as their appellations the names of the traditional gods."
"If the claim is for a greater sum, the trial must be held before the Market Wardens."
"That doesn't matter, because mustn't you necessarily know everything, if you are knowing?"
"Far from it, said Euthydemus."
"Then surely people won't behave better when they hear such criticisms?' '"
"But as I watched them they showed in a short time that the preceding constitution had been a precious thing."
"It always seems to me to have a wonderful way of upsetting not just other arguments, but itself as well."
"I don't think they begrudged it."
"I don't entirely understand what sort of thing imitations are trying to be."
"There are now two things left for us to find in the city, namely, moderati and the goal of our entire inquiry justice."
"arche¯), command: being in charge of everything."
"And let's now arm our earthborn and lead them forth with their rulers in charge."
"Then do you agree to it?"
"I mean those who govern your city, including you."
"Aristophanes, do you really think you can take a shot at me, and then escape?"
"Dion's purpose, however, with respect to his native city and to the power he sought for himself and his friends, was exactly what I should say any moderate man, myself or anyone else, ought to have; such a man would think of enjoying great power and honor only because he is conferring great benefits."
"this is also the reason that Hades, since he is himself wise, associates with her."
"Then that was a grand idea of yours when you told us that knowledge is nothing more or less than perception."
"(He is addressed at as 'son of Callias,' the very rich Athenian said in a to have spent more than anyone else on the sophists, and at a he seems to speak as a respectful admirer of Gorgias.)"
"If our theories about all the celestial beings are to win out, and if it is to appear convincing that they are all divine, we must suppose them to be one of two things."
"If you knew how much money I've made, you'd be amazed."
"But we've already given a decent account, I think, of what its condition is and what parts it has when it is immersed in human life."
"Then he sent the women and children away, and he himself joined us."
"He only left next morning, when the sun came out, and he made his prayers to the new day."
"And for as long a time as it's better?"
"Surely the first subject he will turn to in his regulations will be the very first step that leads to the birth of children in the state."
"Second, that it should be just one universe, in that nothing would be left over from which another one just like it could be made."
"Can we accept this as a statement of policy?"
"Now sometimes this is done by what is called 'night hunting,' when the participants, sluggards that they are, take it in turn to sleep."
"Now would we be contradicting, he said, if we were both to speak description of the same thing?"
"So if a person can do that, he'll adequately discriminate a single form spread out all through many, each of which stands separate from the others, and many forms that are different from each other but are included within a single form that's outside them; and another single form connected as a unit through many wholes, and many forms that are all marked off in separation.'"
"Or do you agree with the general opinion that certain young people are actually corrupted by sophists that there are certain sophists with significant influence on the young who corrupt them through private teaching?"
"Are they two kinds other than those three but necessarily always blending with them?"
"Cratylus Come now, consider where a rule setter looks in giving names."
"Even when the actual laws and the complete constitution have been thus formally committed to writing, you don't exhaust the praises of a supremely virtuous citizen by saying 'Here's a good man for you, a devoted and utterly obedient servant of the laws'."
"speed in learning; good natur inheritance; natural virtue."
"It looks as if the right way to organize the food supply and distribute agricultural produce will be to adopt something like the regulations in force in Crete."
"There you have it, Menexenus the speech of Aspasia of Miletus."
"To describe the dancing movements of these gods, their juxtapositions and the back circlings and advances of their circular courses on themselves; to tell which of the gods come into line with one another at their conjunctions and how many of them are in opposition, and in what order and at which times they pass in front of or behind one another, so that some are occluded from our view to reappear once again, thereby bringing terrors and portents of things to come to those who cannot reason to tell all this without the use of visible models would be labor spent in vain."
"Is this the point of your arguments simply to maintain, in opposition to everything that is commonly said, that things are not many?"
"and he has plenty to say have you ever known anyone like that?"
"The things that turn out right by some chance are not due to human guidance, but where there is correct human guidance"
"They are the same, Socrates, at any rate in respect to that which our argument wishes to make plain."
"But I'm not yet satisfied by the argument on either side."
"But didn't Protagoras actually use similar terms?"
"So, therefore, it is not a correct reproach, if someone reproaches another as being greedy for it turns out that he who makes this reproach is greedy himself."
"This, I think: 'Most honored guests, we're tragedians ourselves, and our tragedy is the finest and best we can create."
"He thereby involves first and foremost himself in confusion, but then also whatever others happen to be nearby, be they younger or older or of the same age, sparing neither his father nor his mother nor anyone else who might listen to him."
"Some of these involve speeches to just about the same degree as they do activity, while many involve speeches more."
"This probably refers to the terms under which the Spartans brought Persia into the Peloponnesian War against Athens in."
"And besides I think I just got clear."
"Is this now some further style of refutation, to laugh when somebody makes a point, instead of refuting him?"
"Our state is new, and has no buildings already existing, so it rather looks as if it will have to work out the details of its entire architectural scheme for itself, particularly those of the temples and city walls."
"So now we can put our thesis on a firmer footing, because it looks as if our study of history has led us to the same conclusion as before."
"And when the citizens agree in this way, in which of them do you say moderation is located?"
"If a man fails in his duty to prosecute the culprit or bar him by proclamation, and is a relative (no more distant than a cousin) of the deceased on either the father's side or the mother's, the pollution, together with the enmity of the gods, should arrive at his own door."
"I am willing why not?"
"Well, I'll try to put the point more explicitly."
"What principles you must follow if you are really to fare"
"Anyone buying or selling his allotted land or house must suffer the penalty appropriate to the crime."
"But it can't be true that all the rest of mankind either know everything or nothing?."
"and the advantageous are the same or different?"
"I don't know what other name there is for it, but it should be called either timocracy or timarchy."
"This law is also correct for another reason: If a spirited person vents his anger in this way, it will be less likely to lead him into more serious disputes."
"You are really what these songs are all about,' I said."
"A sick man, we were just now saying, is a friend to the doctor."
"You think you're good enough for that yourselves."
"Of preventives, some are charms, whether divine or human, warding things off, others forms of defense."
"Does there or does there not exist one thing which all citizens must have for there to be a city?"
"Just the same can be said of."
"By nature as well as by training you take part in both philosophy and politics at once."
"My position, Clinias and Megillus, is not that, if someone hurts someone else involuntarily and without intending it, he is acting unjustly but involuntarily."
"If, however, you do want to discover this, ask me what sort of part of flattery"
"And yet these things would not have happened to these men if they were good men, as you say they were."
"Simmias, as I believe, is in doubt and fear that the soul, though it is more divine and beautiful than the body, yet predeceases it, being a kind of harmony."
"And in general, whatever benefits us most, when this element is added, deserves the highest honor, the second most beneficial thing deserves the second highest honor, and so on: as we go down the list, everything will get in due order the honor it deserves."
"In our view all idle and thoughtless bons vivants will be just the kind of people the poet said were 'like nothing so much as stingless drones'."
"But the Spartans have never taken any such pains, and they are so mean to the gods that they regularly sacrifice blemished animals and fall well behind us in the quality of their worship, in spite of being no less wealthy than ourselves.'"
"I had a suspicion (a correct one as it turned out) of the way in which the argument would end, and I began to make a desperate effort to escape, twisting about as though I were already caught in the net."
"The arrangements we have made are quite satisfactory as they are."
"You probably know him,' he said, 'but he was not yet grown up when you went away."
"If, on the other hand, it does not see anything true because it could not keep up, and by some accident takes on a burden of forgetfulness and wrongdoing, then it is weighed down, sheds its wings and falls to earth."
"No wonder, Megillus."
"It is fitting for you to lead, for it is you who brought up the idea.'"
"He has been telling me for some time, Anytus, that he longs to acquire that wisdom and virtue which enables men to manage their households and their cities well, to take care of their parents, to know how to welcome and to send away both citizens and strangers as a good man should."
"We have to approach this maxim of Pittacus by imagining him speaking and"
": imagine a sacrifice has been performed and"
"The freedom given to the lover by both gods and men according to our custom is immense."
"It's very generous of you to think that I can understand his reasons so clearly."
"Again, Socrates is asking how many of the triangles 'cut off from inside' there are inside."
"Otherwise, pleasure through sight would never be fine, because it is not a pleasure through hearing.'"
"All those bodies which experience only gradual departures from their normal state or gradual depletions but whose replenishments are intense and substantial are bodies that are unaware of their depletions but not of their replenishments, and hence they introduce very substantial pleasures in the mortal part of the soul but not any pains."
"Well then, what kinds of existing things are good for us?"
"But even now it is still possible to withdraw, if you are able to say that the good is anything other than pleasure or that the bad is anything other than pain."
"For what are you going to do when some intrepid fellow has you 'trapped in the well shaft', as they say, with a question that leaves you no way out: clapping his hand over one of your eyes, he asks you whether you see his cloak with the eye that is covered how will you cope with that?"
"The safety and better management of the city."
"Is it what makes by coming to be present each thing to which it is present be seen to be fine, or be fine, or neither?"
"Let's take it that way."
"Do you think that before he would have tried to find out that which he thought he knew though he did not, before he fell into perplexity and realized he did not know and longed to know?"
"Are they alike in all respects?"
"But when the soul and body are jointly affected and moved by one and the same affection, if you call this motion perception, you would say nothing out of the way."
"By Zeus,' he said, 'I certainly can't think of any, Socrates.' '"
"So don't merely give us a theoretical argument that justice is stronger than injustice, but tell us what each itself does, because of its own powers, to someone who possesses it, that makes injustice bad and justice good."
"What we need to consider is whether the greater and more advanced part of it tends to make it easier to see the form of the good."
"Then shall we also impose this law on the guardians:"
"True enough, I said, I was forgetting that they'll obviously need salt, olives, cheese, boiled roots, and vegetables of the sort they cook in the country."
"This is certainly what people say."
"Suppose he is talking to himself about them, and asking himself how many they are."
"We said that a lawgiver should frame his code with an eye on three things: the freedom, unity and wisdom of the city for which he legislates."
"just one of this series of annihilations"
"I like what you say, Socrates, and the fact that I am the oldest"
"All these reasons and considerations make it necessary for the law to aim, like a good archer, at a penalty that will both reflect the magnitude of the crime and fully indemnify the victim."
"Earlier it was true and false judgments which affected the respective pleasures and pains with their own condition."
"I've now pretty well described the sort of physical education which needed to be described, as I said early on."
"you are still young and in your prime, after all."
"Would you not be afraid of this?"
"I've heard it said that from Cnossus to Zeus' cave and shrine is quite a long way, and the tall trees along the route provide shady restingplaces which will be more than welcome in this stiflingly hot weather."
"But I must pay attention to your exhortation and encouragement, and, in addition to the gods you just named, invoke the other gods and make a special prayer to Mnemosyne."
"Theaetetus (to whom I'm now talking) flies.'"
"Then isn't the philosopher actually useless to us?"
"For the most part they would feed outdoors, naked and without bedding; for the blend of the seasons was without painful extremes, and they had soft beds from abundant grass that sprang from the earth."
"Tell me: the instruments through which you perceive hot, hard, light, sweet things"
"Come, then, share with me"
"changing terrain to a temple of Apollo and Artemis."
"I suppose it doesn't."
"no councils for debate have they: They live on the tips of lofty mountains In hollow caves; each man lays down the law To wife and children, with no regard for neighbor."
"When you want to explain something to somebody, do you usually prefer to explain it by yourself in a long speech, or to do it with questions?"
"don't just care about it because it's useful, as other people do, but because it's something they've made themselves."
"For perhaps if we told them that what they were saying isn't true, but is demonstrably false, they would ask us: 'Protagoras and Socrates, if this is not the experience of being overcome by pleasure, but something other than that, what do you two say it is?"
"Is he speaking falsely or is he not even managing to do that much?"
"After you have spoken, you can decide on a topic for Socrates on your right; he can then do the same for the man to his right, and we can go around the table once again.' '"
"What I say is obvious; nevertheless we must keep reminding ourselves that these men (you know whom I mean) ought to stand out so that the rest of mankind will be as children in comparison."
"Socrates recalls the assumptions granted hypothetically at and a. Charmides of finding out anything whatsoever by means of argument, and yourself as being exactly as happy as you are temperate.'"
"We need to hear these arguments, Socrates."
"But after he had turned them into 'admirable and good' people, near the end of his life, they voted to convict Pericles of embezzlement and came close to condemning him to death, because they thought he was a wicked man, obviously."
"If he loses, he must both make good the damage and hand over the slave."
"If a slave intentionally kills a free man, whether he did the deed himself or planned it, and is convicted, the public executioner should haul him off in the direction of the deceased's grave to a point from which the culprit can see the tomb."
"Now we can see why it is hardly surprising that rules and regulations fluctuate so much from state to state: it is because legislation has a different aim in each."
"Would he use the same rule of thumb as your father about you?"
"When a man dies intestate and leaves neither male nor female issue, the situation should in general be met by the foregoing law, and a man and a woman from the clan should 'go in harness' and enter into the deserted establishment with full title to the estate."
"Furthermore, being like that, it would be nowhere, because it could be neither in another nor in itself.' '"
"Theaetetus will put up with it, Socrates."
"But did my playful exaltation really confuse you, as Philebus claims, when I asked to what kind reason and knowledge belonged?"
"but in some way two, though generally his better desires are in control of his worse."
": I'm not asking what it's called now, nor what it ought to be called in the future."
"They grow feathers instead of hair."
"Accepting the emendation sunteinonto¯n at."
"don't know what sort of a waxen device."
"When Er himself came forward, they told him that he was to be a messenger to human beings about the things that were there, and that he was to listen to and look at everything in the place."
"All right, if that pleases you more, I'll do so."
"Tell me now, boy, you know that a square figure is like this?"
"Therefore, we might just as well, it seems, ask ourselves whether the natures of bald and long haired men are the same or opposite."
"In the discussion that follows, Alcibiades is brought to see, very reluctantly, that he knows nothing about moral values or political expediency and that he needs to cultivate himself assiduously in order to realize his enormous ambitions."
"Then if the pleasant through sight and hearing is fine, whatever is not pleasant in that way clearly would not be fine.'"
"The Chief Organizer of the Choruses a) must be chosen in some such way as this."
"Generally speaking, then, that's the way this kind of constitution is established."
"You see, there is no quicker or better method of establishing a political system than this one, nor could there ever be."
"Again, we're told nothing of this kind about Homer."
"Don't do that, contrary to your own opinion."
"so, having learned from and taught each other, to conclude their session."
"I shall give you great proofs of this, not words but what you esteem, deeds."
"Therefore, I say that this is one form of constitution."
"For I hear that some of you have since been revising them; but which parts are mine and which yours will be obvious to anyone who is able to judge of my character."
"The law will instruct him to put up with all manner of suffering before he does such a thing."
"In fact it is pure fiction, based neither on observation nor on adequate reasoning, that a god is an immortal living thing which has a body and a soul, and that these are bound together by."
"No, I find it extraordinarily convincing."
"All this means that our law about drugs must be a double law, reflecting the two methods by which poisoning may be attempted."
"But surely you don't believe this yourself, Euthydemus?"
"The name giver might have made a mistake at the beginning and then forced the other names to be consistent with it."
"Just look at the effects of their arguments!"
"You do surprise me, my friend."
"And as for your question, I think that we have reached the end of this topic."
"He should be tried in the court of select judges and if he is found guilty the court should decide whether it thinks his motive is avarice or pugnacity."
"Will he be able to name one?"
"What you say, said Simmias, is indeed true."
"It appears that Protagoras would have done better to follow his own convictions about virtue that all of it is teachable riding roughshod over popular opinion where necessary to show how all the parts of human virtue are wisdom or knowledge."
"For example, there is both flame and the effluence from flame which, while it doesn't burn, gives light to the eyes."
"And won't they persuade the young man that measured and orderly expenditure is boorish and mean, and, joining with many useless desires, won't they expel it across the border?"
"Of something, surely!' '"
"Now then, this shows that there is one specific desire common to all mankind."
"So accounts of what is stable and fixed and transparent to understanding are themselves stable and unshifting."
"Come here, on my other side.' '"
"So what about doing me and you a favor?"
"What else could I know?"
"It is noteworthy that these Pythagorean elements are lacking from the where Socrates expresses himself noncommittally and unconcernedly about the possibility of immortality and from Crito, as well as the varied discussions of the soul's virtues in such dialogues as Euthyphro, Laches, and Protagoras."
"Of something that is.'"
"Now, don't you think that 'was' and 'has come to be' and 'was coming to be' signify partaking of time past?' '"
"When many of them are sitting together in assemblies, courts, theaters, army camps, or in some other public gathering of the crowd, they object very loudly and excessively to some of the things that are said or done and approve others in the same way, shouting and clapping, so that the very rocks and surroundings echo the din of their praise or blame and double it."
"Or maybe he was called 'The Shaker' ('ho seio¯n'), because he shook (seiein) the earth, and the 'p' and 'd' were added on."
"Therefore it is necessary, as it seems, that each thing that is in time and partakes of time be the same age as itself and, at the same time, come to be both older and younger than itself.' '"
"A line of Euripides comes appropriately to my mind: 'Thou'lt pray for such a helper at thy side.'"
"Fare you well, and try to endure what you must as easily as possible.'"
"These factors produce countless painful diseases, often accompanied by profuse perspiration."
"Is it visible or invisible?"
"Misanthropy comes when a man without knowledge or skill has placed great trust in someone and believes him to be altogether truthful, sound and trustworthy; then, a short time afterwards he finds him to be wicked and unreliable, and then this happens in another case; when one has frequently had that experience, especially with those whom one believed to be one's closest friends, then, in the end, after many such blows, one comes to hate all men and to believe that no one is sound in any way at all."
"'There's a charioteer who gets a salary from my father.' '"
"I mean something like this."
"I swear by the gods, Socrates,"
"But since his consistently high reputation made him feel ashamed in the eyes of the company and he did not wish to admit to me that he was incapable of dealing with the question I had asked him, he said nothing clear but concealed his predicament."
"Why do you keep up this nonsense?"
"The responsibility for this reputation of yours lies with Gorgias, for when he came to your city he found that the leading Aleuadae, your lover Aristippus among them, loved him for his wisdom, and so did the other leading Thessalians."
"The gentleman from Phaleron!'"
"You did well to release the man from the rock quarries; and my petition about Hegesippus, the son of Ariston, and his family is easy to grant, for you wrote me that if anyone ever tried to do him or them an injury and you knew of it you would prevent it."
"Then those are the traits a potential guardian would need at the outset."
"Won't that seem disgraceful?"
"Because this inscription appears to me to have been dedicated for the following purpose, as though it were a greeting from the god to those coming in in place of the usual 'Hail', as though to say 'hail' were an incorrect greeting, but we should rather urge one another to 'be temperate'."
"No, we'd better not, if we go along with the argument."
"But we spend most of our time discussing things, and we'd be glad to have you join in.'"
"I should think not, since they would be no use to me."
"Meno fine speeches to large audiences about the square of double size and said that it must have a base twice as long."
"When he listens, first, to his mother complaining that her husband isn't one of the rulers and that she's at a disadvantage among the other women as a result."
"Perhaps, and perhaps even more than that, for I myself really don't know yet, but whatever direction the argument blows us"
"And if this is so, you may well find it astonishing that those for whom it is better to die are wrong to help themselves, and that they must wait for someone else to benefit them."
"A harmony is therefore far from making a movement, or uttering a sound, or doing anything else, in a manner contrary to that of its parts."
"Reading au to ex ekeino¯n hama kai neuro¯n in."
"Is it not the person who distributes it appropriately?"
"I should be glad to discuss what has happened with those who voted for my acquittal during the time that the officers of the court are busy and I do not yet have to depart to my death."
"And one of them is to see what the name 'techne¯' ('craft') means."
"So much, then, for music, which is roughly the half of the subject of choruses that we said we had examined and finished with; so that's that."
"The Scythian practice is an illustration of this: a Scythian doesn't use his left hand exclusively to draw his bow and his right hand exclusively to fit in the arrow, but uses both hands for both jobs indifferently."
"are precious and related to it."
"or we've just been stupid."
"Yes, he might say that."
"Because you neglected this sex, you gradually lost control of a great many things which would be in a far better state today if they had been regulated by law."
"Yes; please say how we should do so."
"Nothing, I dare say."
"In between the Being that is indivisible and always changeless, and the one that is divisible and comes to be in the corporeal realm, he mixed a third, intermediate form of being, derived from the other two."
"After dinner, we'll go out to look at it."
"My own situation is this."
"So then we shouldn't even be annoyed about this conclusion, precisely because it's the nature of kinds to allow association with each other."
"This is the point the lawgiver has to watch; he must keep his eyes on these two things, injustice and injury."
"At one stroke they will lose their strength and also become more profitable to us, owing to the increase in their number."
"If Cyrene were first in my affections, Theodorus, I should be asking you how things are there, and whether any of your young people are taking up geometry or any other branch of philosophy."
"Do you want the Trojans' dearest wish fulfilled, and utter ruin send us to the grave?"
"And it is then that the soul of the philosopher most disdains the body, flees from it and seeks to be by itself?"
"As its waters fall into the lake they acquire dread powers; then diving below and winding round it flows in the opposite direction from the Pyriphlegethon and into the opposite side of the Acherusian lake; its waters do not mingle with any other; it too flows in a circle and into Tartarus opposite the Pyriphlegethon."
"For I don't imagine that it is like the gods to be swayed by gifts, like some low moneylender; we make ourselves sound very silly when we boast that we do better than the Spartans on this score."
"I did, and you're quite right that the same people can't do both."
"And what's the difference between the one and the other?"
"There are many strange places upon the earth, and the earth itself is not such as those who are used to discourse upon"
"As for the south of the acropolis, when they left their orchards, gymnasia, and common messes, as they would for the summer season, they converted it to these uses."
"It seems then, on the basis of the magnitude of its number, that the image of tyrannical pleasure is a plane figure."
"Yes, that seems all right."
"Are good people any different from wise ones?"
"Here is a proposition we shall always affirm above all else: The god fashioned these four kinds to be as perfect and excellent as possible, when they were not so before."
"Now, we said that, if something could be shown, as it were, to be and not to be at the same time, it would be intermediate between what purely is and what in every way is not, and that neither knowledge nor ignorance would be set over it, but something intermediate between ignorance and knowledge?"
"Is fighting in armor a useful subject for young men to learn or not?"
"Book Such, then, I said, are the kinds of stories that I think future guardians should and should not hear about the gods from childhood on, if they are to honor the gods and their parents and not take their friendship with one another lightly."
"Or was that well spoken before the necessity to die came upon me, but now it is clear that this was said in vain for the sake of argument, that it was in truth play and nonsense?"
"I slipped underneath the cloak and put my arms around this man this utterly unnatural, this truly extraordinary man and spent the whole night next to him."
"Such was the conviction I had when I arrived in Italy and Sicily for the first time."
"The twelve Guardians of the next in order of seniority after the five eldest must act as inspectors and supervisors in this entire field."
"But now, as we subsequently examine the question, you see for yourself too that it's agreed that, quite to the contrary, the orator is incapable of using oratory unjustly and of being willing to do what's unjust."
"You know very well now that I am."
"Therefore the goddess who presides at childbirth"
"It is only those who practice philosophy in the right way, we say, who always most want to free the soul; and this release and separation of the soul from the body is the preoccupation of the philosophers?"
"That is the reason why a man should be of good cheer about his own soul, if during life he has ignored the pleasures of the body and its ornamentation as of no concern to him and doing him more harm than good, but has seriously concerned himself with the pleasures of learning, and adorned his soul not with alien but with its own ornaments, namely, moderation, righteousness, courage, freedom and truth, and in that state awaits his journey to the underworld."
"This is how they proceed in matters which they consider technical."
"So they are all the same, it seems: king, tyrant, politician, head of the household, master of slaves, sensible man, and just man."
"So the wisdom about what is and is not to be feared is courage and is the opposite of this ignorance?'"
"Which of the two methods do you think makes a doctor a better healer, or a trainer more efficient?"
"But this is impossible, since smallness is nowhere in anything.' 'True.' '"
"I came to Syracuse at the joint invitation of you and Dion."
"I believe that the people who institute our laws are the weak and the many."
"Maybe something else will occur to them later, and to us too."
"But this was shown as well: that the one is the same as the others.' '"
"The result is that whenever anyone fancies himself as a good writer of tragedy, he does not go about exhibiting his plays in the other cities round about Athens but comes straight here and shows his work to our people, as is the natural Laches thing to do."
"If different people apply the term to different things, one would drag into his own house whatever he could separate from the others, and another would drag things into a different house to a different wife and children, and this would make for private pleasures and pains at private things."
"Thamyris was a legendary poet and singer, who boasted that he could defeat the Muses in a song contest."
"and when they're present, too."
"As evidence for your view, you'd point to the animal world, where (you'd argue)"
"Well then, Clinias and Megillus, who will make all these arrangements about these officials in our state, and their scrutiny?"
"We will also call both sea captains and sailors defenders, but no one should encourage us by proclaiming any single one of these men wise."
"He might very well sell his possessions at once and obtain in exchange whatever he actually needed for his day to day existence, or even spend hard currency, in exchange for which he could acquire those items and then have a good supply of everything right away.' '"
"So, what other names do you think are left for us to examine?"
"the same consequence having followed from the same condition in both cases at once?"
"But suppose he had in him nothing but injustice and insolence."
"As for what my own reasoning is, that's been told many times by now, but there's nothing to stop its being told once again."
"And, when we agree that they are opposite, then, if the bald ones are cobblers, we ought to forbid the long haired ones to be cobblers, and if the long haired ones are cobblers, we ought to forbid this to the bald ones."
"Well, I draw a conclusion that contradicts my original suppositions."
"It is quite impossible for someone who doesn't understand something either to know or to deliberate about what he doesn't understand."
"So someone opines neither what is nor what is not?"
"But someone who knows that he hasn't been unjust has sweet good hope as his constant companion a nurse to his old age, as Pind says, for he puts it charmingly, Socrates, when he says that when someone lives a just and pious life"
"As follows: don't you apply to something each name you use?'"
"But if not, there is nothing we can do for you, my dear Charmides.'"
"It seems that we'll need someone like that most of all."
"Well, Alcibiades, do you think that a husband is able to agree with his wife about wool working, when he doesn't understand it"
"But as to the true and pure pleasures you mentioned, those regard as our kin."
"They would be stored up for the city as guards and benefactors when they came of age."
"That's what we agreed."
"My point is perfectly easy to explain."
"What's that?' asked Critias. '"
"And it would follow that temperate men are good?' '"
"I'll tell it, then, though I don't know where I'll get the audacity or"
"Greetings to you, too,'"
"What is your case, Euthyphro?"
"Why not, Socrates, if this appears for any reason to be the right thing to do?"
"Hera's followers look for a kingly character, and once they have found him they do all the same things for him."
"Eagerly, I ask him to tell me what he means."
"But not even that was enough for him."
", the other is ruled, the one is the cause of everything, the other the cause of nothing that takes place."
"It seems to signify that it stops (histe¯si)"
"What the Visitor and Young Socrates appear to be doing when they 'divide' in each case as here, with knowledge is to divide a more generic grouping or 'class' into more specific sub groups or '(sub classes' (the claim being in each case that the 'cut' is made in accordance with actual divisions, existing in things themselves)."
"Certainly, I said the former was mine and the latter his."
"Then, as I asked before, isn't it only to be expected that this is what happens to those who take up arguments in this way, and don't they therefore deserve a lot of sympathy?"
"I'll swear by Friendship, yours and mine."
"I was attached to this city by the god though it seems a ridiculous thing to say as upon a great and noble horse which was somewhat sluggish because of its size and needed to be stirred up by a kind of gadfly."
"Plato had visited the court of Dionysius I in about and according to these he had formed a close friendship there with the tyrant's young brother in law, Dion later an influential figure in his government of whose intellectual and moral qualities he held a high opinion."
"It isn't for nothing that you were so shy about telling your falsehood."
"But as things are, see whether the suggestion I am about to make may not be a good one:"
"They both express it."
"When they're harvesting?"
"Again, Socrates, I think there must be."
"For example, will a farmer provide food for everyone, spending quadruple the time and labor to provide food to be shared by them all?"
"Something looked at from close at hand doesn't seem to be the same size as it does when it is looked at from a distance."
"But if you agree that what I said is correct, couldn't I reply that you've agreed to the very point that is in question in our whole discussion?"
"Again, we say that a fool, though full of foolish opinions and hopes, gets pleasure, but likewise a wise man takes pleasure in his wisdom."
"Mostly he takes me to school.' '"
"What will we be able to advise the city on?"
"You are absolutely right about that, too."
"And I would agree with you.' '"
"And if indeed the things that are are flowing, then a battle cannot be anything but an opposing flow."
"I said that the one, medicine, has investigated both the nature of the object it serves and the cause of the things it does, and is able to give an account of each of these."
"Having done that, they proceeded to cut channels throughout."
"In the course of my life I've often seen with my own eyes how the Morning and the Evening Star, and a number of others, never describe the same course, but vary from one to another; and we all know that the sun and moon always move like that."
"Well, do you know how best to please god when you either use words or discuss them in general?"
"They were always observing the entire totality of the visible stars, as it were, since their part of the world has no clouds or rain."
"In other words, is there, as I say, a natural badness and sickness for pretty well everything?"
"I mean the same thing?"
"Well then, you tell me that you're wavering about what is just and unjust, admirable and contemptible, good and bad, and advantageous and disadvantageous."
"He'll imitate this good man most when he's acting in a faultless and intelligent manner, but he'll do so less, and with more reluctance, when the good man is upset by disease, sexual passion, drunkenness, or some other misfortune."
"That's also how it is with love."
"But if even so a man gets the reputation of being deaf to such prefaces, then the right law to pass to deal with him will run as follows."
"I know that it looks washed out and ridiculous."
"So, will it be better if it acts badly and misses the mark voluntarily or involuntarily?"
"Would you know what to do with him and where else to send him, if he refused to learn from them?"
"The point I happened to bring up in my discussion of the subject, and which naturally made you ask what I meant, was this:"
"Give me that sort of answer.'"
"There was not just one, but two."
"What are we to say about them?"
"So while a living thing's constitution is still young, and its elemental triangles are 'fresh from the slips,' as it were, the triangles are firmly locked together, even though the frame of its entire mass is pliable, seeing that it has just lately been formed from marrow and nourished with milk."
"Glaucon/Socrates We did, indeed."
"The reason is that a thing of any kind that is alike and uniform is incapable of effecting any change in, or being affected by, anything that is similar to it."
"Don't tell me the Epidaurians hold a contest for rhapsodes in honor of the god?"
"It emphatically is alive."
"You pick out whatever is the most difficult part of the argument, and fasten on to it in minute detail, and don't dispute about the whole subject under discussion."
"But there was also a difference between different sciences, since one kind deals with a subject matter that comes to be and perishes, the other is concerned with what is free of that, the eternal and self same."
"I understand that you think me more dull witted than the jury, as you will obviously show them that these actions were unjust and that all the gods hate such actions."
"But I think that there would be a lot of disagreement about whether or not it is possible."
"Then the thing that comes to be and the maker are different things."
"And if he disobeys the one, disregards his opinion and his praises while valuing those of the many who have no knowledge, will he not suffer harm?"
", I suppose, to imagine that the person who asked the question would understand anything from our answer when we say 'clay', whether we add that it is dollmakers' clay or any other craftsman's."
"And third, there is what is most commonly called honey, which includes all that relaxes the taste passages of the mouth back to their natural state, and which by virtue of this property conveys a sense of sweetness."
"Because when you undertake to do anything by force, no man living can oppose you.' '"
"There's nothing I would rather hear than you and Protagoras in debate."
"Now, why reproduction?"
"These benefits fall into two classes, 'human' and 'divine.'"
"What we call not beautiful is the thing that's different from nothing other than the nature of the beautiful."
"Indeed, if there were more of us here, it wouldn't be right to ask him it's not fitting, especially for a man his age, to engage in such a discussion in front of a crowd."
"Now, are we ready to affirm of our friends' state what we just said, namely, that it is ridiculous if it is harmless to others?"
"he's in every way qualified to be tempted away from philosophy, but his physical illness restrains him by keeping him out of politics."
"this being the way that it is in fact divided."
"this is exactly what happens in pretty nearly every state."
"Let's make our agreement more precise in order to avoid disputes later on."
"But tell me what you intend on this occasion: where do you think your citizen body will come from this time?"
"So anyone who is a good rhapsode turns out to be a good general too."
"Isn't this skill athletics?"
"No, don't tell me you'd call both of them; tell me which you'd rather call first.' '"
"Tell me now first whether a man who has an itch and scratches it and can scratch to his heart's content, scratch his whole life long, can also live happily."
"Well,' he said, 'if you had dealt with him as you should, you would not have gone wrong at all, would you?' '"
"So much for my second topic."
"After that he'd bid good bye to his doctor, resume his usual way of life, and either recover his health or, if his body couldn't withstand the illness, he'd die and escape his troubles."
"Now, is the spirited part by which we get angry a third part or is it of the same nature as either of the other two?"
"Though no one can become so much as a good player of checkers or dice if he considers it only as a sideline and doesn't practice it from childhood."
"But when this part has measured and has indicated that some things are larger or smaller or the same size as others, the opposite appears to it at the same time."
"well and bad things ill?"
"I said, 'if friends are not those who love, nor those who are loved, nor those who love and are loved?"
"Hippias, I think we have to say that they are the most harmless pleasures and the best, both and each as well."
"I'm sure if I went off and looked for it by myself in quiet"
"C. composer of iambic and elegiac poems."
"Then it wasn't quite right to agree, as we did a few minutes ago, that some people know what belongs to them without knowing themselves, while others know what belongs to their belongings."
"However, please relax your rule a little bit for me and agree to investigate whether it is teachable or not by means of a hypothesis."
"It's measuring, isn't it?"
"And can what does nothing bad be the cause of anything bad?"
"I want to leave out of account their rewards and what comes from each of them."
"Did I define love at the beginning of my speech?"
"I'd reply, 'Health is present and disease is absent.'"
"And the person who needs nothing wouldn't prize anything.' '"
"That is certainly a frank and indeed a generous answer, my dear lad."
"Neither will the doctor know anything about medicine since medicine is a science.'"
"Since we have no use for these stones, is there any reason why we should consider him any wealthier because he has them?' '"
"I am now going to make its meaning clearer to you."
"Who gives such credit to you?'"
"And in all this, the old traditional opinions that he had held from childhood about what is fine or shameful opinions that are accounted just are overcome by the opinions, newly released from slavery, that are now the bodyguard of erotic love and hold sway along with it."
"if you've got the time even if you are busy still, please make some time, for my sake."
"I.e., as usual in classical Greek, the Persians."
"and if modesty is no more good than bad.' '"
"Thales is said to have predicted the eclipse of."
"Were you not saying just now that virtue is to desire good things and have the power to secure them?"
"Furthermore, I thought that my presence with you made it more rather than less obligatory upon you to continue the annual revenues you had been sending to Dion."
"Don't you think that way too, Hippias?"
"is to establish a relation of ruling and being ruled contrary to nature."
"But I don't quite believe in your ability to bring it off unless your brother Dionysodorus here should lend a helping hand perhaps the two of you might be able to do it."
"But now since false speech and false belief both appear to be, it's possible for imitations of those that are to be, and for expertise in deception to arise from that state of affairs."
"At any rate, it wouldn't be at all inappropriate for you to respond that way."
"So let's abandon the quest for what the good itself is for the time being, for even to arrive at my own view about it is too big a topic for the discussion"
"Both these kinds of living beings the one made of ether and the next in order, the one made of air are wholly imperceptible."
"No; I mean 'suffer loss.'"
"They'll decide for the exhibitor of puppets, won't they?"
"Because then a diviner would be better at giving advice than you."
"And if he's been drinking, odds are we'll wake up in the middle of the night thinking we hear Lysis' name."
"Come on, let's go.' '"
"We thought that, by looking at how their relationship to happiness and its opposite seemed to us, we'd also be compelled to agree about ourselves as well, that the one who was most like them would have a portion of happiness most like theirs."
"There's another thing too."
"And from all this he will be able, by considering the nature of the soul, to reason out which life is better and which worse and to choose accordingly, calling a life worse if it leads the soul to become more unjust, better if it leads the soul to become more just, and ignoring everything else"
"I must try it, then, especially since you agree to be so great an ally."
"How fortunate that I've fallen in with you and Megillus!"
"And what kind of children will that marriage produce?"
"So why should I recount the whole story?"
"I will as soon as I have some money."
"And if he burns severely or painfully, the thing that's being burned is burned in whatever way the burning thing burns it?"
"Whatever the subject of dispute, he made the litigants take an oath, a device which enabled him to get through his list of cases rapidly and without making mistakes."
"The prayer was granted, but then Theseus discovered Hippolytus' innocence."
"That's my opinion anyway, now that I hear it from you."
"(They should look at the matter in the following light: none of the farms belongs to its occupant or his family in general as much as to the state, which is entitled to it not only as a piece of public property but also as its own private possession; and the state ought to do its best to keep its own properties as holy and prosperous as possible.)"
"for many Athenian gentlemen have suffered that fate already. '"
"For my part, Socrates, I told them right then that the decoration really belonged to you, and you can blame me neither for doing so then nor for saying so now."
"So it also is older than that very thing it was coming to be older than and wasn't it coming to be older than itself?' '"
"Then again, which do you think is like the divine and"
"Meno's is one of the leading aristocratic families of Thessaly, traditionally friendly to Athens and Athenian interests."
"Literally, 'is likely.'"
"who tell us that 'Unmoved is the Universe', and other similar statements which we hear from a Meliss or a Parmenides as against the whole party of Heracliteans."
"They'll easily find out for themselves whatever needs to be legislated about such things."
"I wish that were true, Ion."
"But surely, Socrates, any accomplishment that any of our present day men produces is a far cry from the sorts of accomplishments produced by any one of the others you choose."
"But if (as is quite likely in a new foundation)"
"He takes better care of the gods, therefore, (and, indeed, of the human beings"
"Next in line is to be the brother of the deceased's father, next (e) that brother's son, and finally (f) the son of the sister of the deceased's father."
"Why else should one live, I say, if not for pleasures of this sort?"
": it's difficult to fight against two enemies, especially when they are fundamentally different (as with diseases, for instance, and there are a lot of other examples)."
"if indeed there is such a name."
"So these are the regulations the person appointed as our Director of Music must adopt and enforce"
"Our real self our immortal soul, as it is called departs, as the ancestral law declares, to the gods below to give an account of itself."
"That is likely, said I. Likely indeed, he said, but arguments are not like men in this particular."
"that's exactly the arrangement we want."
"Well, would they be right?"
"perhaps you follow me now"
"But here and now, let's just give a swift sketch of the building program."
"Themistocles and Pericles and Cimon did, and whoever else was an outstanding politician."
"Rather, I would call them rash and mad."
"As the poet neatly puts it, in those words so often cited, 'a city's walls should be made of bronze and iron, not stone'."
"We should lay down comparatively severe penalties for those who have killed in anger and with premeditation, and lighter ones for those who have killed on the spur of the moment without previous intent."
"No one would look anywhere else."
"While they are boys, because they are chips off the male block, they love men and enjoy lying with men and being embraced by men; those are the best of boys and lads, because they are the most manly in their nature."
"For instance, the water supply for farmers is the subject of some splendid old established laws"
"Our discussion has led us to a legal paradox, and naturally we must go into it in details and not at our age rashly claim to pontificate in such an important field off the cuff."
"Certainly, Megillus and Clinias, but what an amazing doctrine we've got involved in, without noticing it!"
"What about the perils of the sea"
"Yet if it really were good, it wouldn't appear bad to some of us.'"
"Here is a further point on which we agreed some time ago: those who can control themselves are good, those who cannot are bad."
"Then, if we have devoted sufficient care to the mind, wouldn't we be right, in order to avoid having to do too much talking, to entrust it with the detailed supervision of the body, while we indicate only the general patterns to be followed?"
"And there were, we agreed, two great sorts of expertise in every sphere, that of combination and that of separation."
"Who, then, would be the proper winner?"
"Being elderly, I am ready to run the risk, and I surrender myself to Dionysodorus here just as I might to Medea of Colchis."
"If he happens to have a stick, and I don't run and run away from him, he'll try to give me a thrashing."
"Then I realized how ridiculous I'd been to agree to join with you in praising Love and to say that I was a master of the art of love, when I knew nothing"
"Yes, we really should, if our third partner, Timaeus, also agrees."
"But, on the other hand, what is right does appear as right, and what is left as left whenever light switches sides in the process of coalescing with the light with which it coalesces."
"And do you suppose that the same things are to be feared by those for whom it is an advantage to die as by those for whom it is an advantage to live?"
"These, then, were the circumstances that account for my first visit to Sicily and occupied the time of my sojourn there."
"Just as you always say, Socrates, let us inquire into this matter, and if your claim seems reasonable and it is established that pleasure and the good are the same, then we will come to agreement; otherwise we will disagree.' '"
"ought to call it, to which all these converge something with which, through those things, as if they were instruments, we perceive all that is perceptible."
"No, by Zeus, I think you've given ample proof."
"We imagine that the way to bequeath them modesty is to rebuke them when they are immodest, but that is not the result produced in the young when people admonish them nowadays and tell them that youth must show respect to everyone."
"And similarly, aren't some pains good and others bad, too?"
"I have said all this for the purpose of advising Dion's friends and relatives; and to all that has been said I add the same advice and the same doctrine that I have given twice before."
"Charmides comes on stage here as a beautiful, thoughtful, much admired youth, very modest and self possessed for Critias and the others present, the model of aristocratic excellence in the making."
"I don't think an individual takes joy in what belongs to him personally unless by 'belonging to me' he means 'good' and by 'belonging to another' he means 'bad.'"
"Doctors provide the clearest parallel."
"Oligarchy comes fourth, because it has the largest number of powerful people, so that it admits the growth of a new order only with difficulty."
"There is your practical man, Theodorus."
"None at all, Socrates."
"Or do you think we were talking nonsense just now?"
"He would not even nod at this; he remained silent."
"Therefore, if one is not, the others neither are nor are conceived to be one or many.' '"
"The twentieth soul chose the life of a lion."
"Likewise, the same account goes for sound and hearing these too are the gods' gifts, given for the same purpose and intended to achieve the same result."
"And someone often envisages himself in the possession of an enormous amount of gold and of a lot of pleasures as a consequence."
"Or do you prefer one full of risks?'"
"Then a poetic imitator is an accomplished fellow when it comes to wisdom about the subjects of his poetry!"
"Is not anything that is composite and a compound by nature liable to be split up into its component parts, and only that which is noncomposite, if anything, is not likely to be split up?"
"The continuous theory of being, according to Hippias, does not allow it to be otherwise; but whatever both are, that each is as well; and whatever each is, both are."
"No doubt it's because everybody easily recognizes that the healthy person's condition is superior to the sick person's."
"Thus 'Ze¯na' and 'Dia' together correctly name the god that is always the cause of life (di' hon ze¯n) for all creatures."
"Looking at these things, Protagoras, I just don't think that virtue can be taught."
"Euthydemus of that Egyptian sophist, Proteus."
"Which ones do you mean?"
"Thus we are treated to excursuses on what it is to divide a class at places where there are real subclasses marked off by their own specific natures, not in some arbitrary and merely conventional way; on which sorts of things require the preliminary study of 'models' in order to understand them fully and on the precise nature of such a 'model'; on the often neglected but crucially important science of measuring things by reference to 'due measure' and not relatively to given other things exceeding or falling short of them in the relevant respect length, weight, size, etc."
"They lose their inflated and rigid beliefs about themselves that way, and no loss is pleasanter to hear or has a more lasting effect on them."
"Color is a flame which flows forth from bodies of all sorts, with its parts proportional to our sight so as to produce perception."
"What if I show you a different answer about justice than all these and a better one?"
"He marries them off and makes them set up house together."
"Which stories do you mean, and what fault do you find in them?"
"We can cite our present subject as a kind of witness to demonstrate the point more clearly."
"But they don't ask whether it is air, do they now?"
"And so we'll need more servants, too."
"A man who commits one of these crimes might be suffering from insanity, or be as good as insane either because of disease, or the effects of advanced senility, or because he is still in the years of childhood."
"Is it to secure for oneself?"
"At your age, my prodigy, you're undertaking to govern us older men, so that your family may carry on with its tradition of providing someone to look after us."
"Doesn't the same account also hold if a person makes a surgical cut?"
"But if it comes to be or is for an equal time, it is the same age.' '"
"governed by the same thing."
"Or haven't you noticed that all the names you utter are based on the same assumption and have the same purpose?"
"From Sparta, obviously, where you visited most often."
"So it follows from this argument that all the souls of all living creatures will be equally good, if souls are by nature equally this very thing, souls."
"Further, of all the parts of a man, can you mention any other part that rules him than his soul, especially if it is a wise soul?"
"The Assyrians had a tremendous grudge against the Greeks: Troy, which was part of the Assyrian empire, had been captured for a second time."
"(Less trouble need be taken over the other officials.)"
"Tell me again, what is knowledge?"
"In so far as 'r' and 's' are alike, or in so far as they are unlike?"
"However, if you think you can accomplish anything, speak."
"Is that how you mean 'everyone'?"
"They wander until their longing for that which accompanies them, the physical, again imprisons them in a body, and they are then, as is likely, bound to such characters as they have practiced in their life."
"These times must be neither shortened nor lengthened: neither the child nor its father must be allowed to extend or curtail these periods of study out of enthusiasm for, or distaste of, the curriculum; that will be against the law."
"They both need all these things."
"The judge has the same aim, and when he is faced by his legal duty of assessing what penalty or fine the defendant must pay, he must follow closely in the legislator's footsteps; and the latter must turn himself."
"I maintain that serious matters deserve our serious attention, but trivialities do not; that all men of good will should put God at the center of their thoughts; that man, as we said before, has been created as a toy for God; and that this is the great point in his favor."
"From the material he then proceeded to mold vertebrae to enclose marrow of the neck and back, and set them in place one underneath another, beginning with the head and proceeding along the whole length of the trunk, to function as pivots."
"Sometimes joking is a relief from seriousness."
"Not the same people?"
"Oh, no, indeed, Theodorus!"
"Yes, someone did tell us about that, and we wondered that he seems to have died a long time after the trial took place."
"I don't feel at all certain; but"
"Then doesn't the same happen with"
"Why did you not tell him yourself?"
"All this, then, explains why this world which he begat for himself is a blessed god."
"No one could object to the way the land was parceled out, and large long standing debts did not exist."
"Remarkably so, said Ctesippus."
"You only have to make some change in names, then."
"In his play, The Myrmidons."
"Nonetheless, if the poetry that aims at pleasure and imitation has any argument to bring forward that proves it ought to have a place in a well governed city, we at least would be glad to admit it, for we are well aware of the charm it exercises."
"We found Socrates recently released from his chains, and Xanthippe you know her sitting by him, holding their baby."
"Now we said if we remember that the knowledgeable person, the one who really possesses the art of statesmanship, would do many things in relation to his own activity by using his expertise, without taking any notice of the written laws, when other things appear to him to be better, contrary to those that have been written down by him and given as orders to people who are not currently with him."
"He stood out among the boys and older youths, a garland on his head, and deserved to be called not only a beautiful boy but"
"In the same fashion he also dealt with the vowels and the intermediates, until he had found out the number for each one of them, and then he gave all of them together the name 'letter.'"
"If such a person sets foot within the country of the murdered man, the first of the relatives of the deceased who comes across him, or indeed any citizen, should either (i) kill him with impunity, or (ii) tie him up, and hand him over to the judges who tried the case for them to carry out the execution."
"So the combination we want is possible after all, and our search for the good guardian is not contrary to nature."
"Yet it is illogical to be brave through fear and cowardice."
"the temperature of people's bodies; if I decide to, I can make them vomit or make their bowels move, and all sorts of things."
", orbits of the celestial beings, that are brothers of one another."
"When Socrates had said this Crito spoke."
"So if a house gets to be organized and orderly it would be a good one, and if it gets to be disorganized it would be a terrible one?"
"Very well, said I, but how am I to act?"
"If I do not know Meno what something is, how could I know what qualities it possesses?"
"Now that is the life of the gods."
"Or do you think that anyone who is gentle and without malice is harsh with someone who is neither irritable nor malicious?"
"After all, the law against excessive wealth will do a great deal to encourage self control, and the educational curriculum is full of sound rules designed for the same purpose."
"Instead let's choose some of the most important ones."
"Let them put their questions."
"You don't realize that sight and the visible have such a need?"
"And isn't it the same in every other case, that as long as there's a tradesman, the philosopher is of no use?' '"
"I mean someone who is not prevented by disease or other such things, someone like you with regard to writing my name."
"I must say this much at least."
"Is the pleasant the same as the good?"
"I don't know exactly how you came to be called 'the maniac,' but you certainly talk like one, always furious with everyone, including yourself but not with Socrates!"
"On the Cretan model, or the Spartan?"
"They would go their way on better terms with each other than they were before, instead of loathing each other, which is what happens nowadays; and this would be because they had rules to regulate the whole of their intercourse and had followed every instruction given by the sober to the tipsy."
"The common Greek coinage is to be used for expeditions and visits to the outside world, such as when a man has to be sent abroad as an ambassador or to convey some official message; to meet these occasions the state must always have a supply of Greek coinage."
"provided he does not diminish the value of the slave to his master"
"Suppose I call one of the things that are for instance, the one we now call 'man' suppose I give that the name 'horse' and give the one we now call 'horse' the name 'man'."
"That is the reason why they cannot make others be Meno like themselves, because it is not knowledge which makes them what they are."
"Do you think he tries in each case to imitate the thing itself in nature or the works of craftsmen?"
"Emending ta auta to tauta in."
"But if he meets with some unforeseen accident and leaves just daughters, he must forgive the lawgiver if he arranges the giving of them in marriage with an eye on only two out of three possible considerations: close kinship, and the security of the estate."
"I'll try to make my view clear as follows: I'll distinguish for myself the things that do or don't lead in the direction we mentioned, and you must study them along with me and either agree or disagree, and that way we may come to know more clearly whether things are indeed as I divine."
"A man in love will wish he had not done you any favors Stop."
"Then don't force whatever is not beautiful to be ugly, or whatever is not good to be bad."
"Hence, for them alone among the city's population, it is unlawful to touch or handle gold or silver."
"Instead, they always look down at the ground like cattle, and, with their heads bent over the dinner table, they feed, fatten, and fornicate."
"We should have said that he aimed at virtue in its entirety, and that the various separate headings under which he tried to frame the laws of his time were quite different from those employed by modern legal draftsmen."
"For when the eyelids which the gods devised to keep eyesight safe are closed, they shut in the power of the internal fire, which then disperses and evens out the internal motions, and when these have been evened out, a state of quietness ensues."
"To go through the changes that have occurred in relation to the other animals, and from what causes, would involve a description of considerable length; those that relate to human beings will be shorter to relate and more to the point."
"So also the one, since it is older or younger, never comes to be older or younger than the others that are older or younger than it.'"
"At the beginning it fulfilled his teaching more accurately, but in the end less keenly; the cause of this was the bodily element in its mixture, its companion since its origins long in the past, because this element was marked by a great disorder before it entered into the present world order."
"Accepting the conjecture hudo¯r at."
"Why is that, Parmenides?'"
"But how could I possibly win him over?"
"True, that's precisely where you fail to convince."
"Because if it is Parmenides the same age as itself or another, it will surely partake of likeness and of equality of time, of which likeness and equality we said the one has no share.' '"
"I'm simply contradicting the things he said which I find objectionable."
"You now appear to be seeing what you don't see; and you have actually admitted that seeing is knowing, and not to see is not to know."
"For although a good man who is also prudent and sagacious cannot be altogether deceived about the character of wicked men, it would not be surprising if he should suffer the misfortune of the skilled captain who, though not unaware of the approach of a storm, may not foresee its extraordinary and unexpected violence, and be swamped by its force."
"So, it seems I must investigate 'wisdom', 'comprehension', 'judgment' ('gno¯me¯'), 'knowledge' ('episte¯me¯'), and all those other fine names of which you speak."
"He also has to master the essential preliminary studies, survey with the eye of a philosopher what they have in common, and use them to frame consistent rules of moral action; and finally, when a reasoned explanation is possible, he must be able to provide it."
"Our King saw (a) that all actions are a function of soul and involve a great deal of virtue and a great deal of vice, (b) that the combination of body and soul, while not an eternal creation like the gods sanctioned by law, is nevertheless indestructible (because living beings could never have been created if one of these two constituent factors had been destroyed),"
"When the maker made our world, what living thing did he make it resemble?"
"And when you make something better, you say you're taking proper care of it."
"So the one could not be in the others as a whole, nor could parts of it be in them, if it is separate from the others and doesn't have parts.' '"
"Their public image is that they owe their superiority to their brave fighting men, and their reason for promoting this image is that if the real basis for their superiority were discovered,.e., wisdom, everyone else would start cultivating it."
"Yet if he knows a thing, it is impossible that he should not know it; or if he does not know it, he cannot know it."
"We should remember this, however: if someone asks about the terms from which a name is formed, and then about the ones from which those terms are formed, and keeps on doing this indefinitely, the answerer must finally give up."
"And wasn't your idea a good one, Socrates?"
"After all, only he is in a position even to know what would be an untruth to say!"
"In that case, I'll be very grateful to the child, and just as grateful to you if you refute me and rid me of this nonsense."
"Against him, Socrates insists that in fact it is better to suffer injustice than to do it and, unable to deny this consistently, Polus in his turn falls to Socrates' dialectic."
"Therefore, if the one is to be the same as itself, it won't be one with itself; and thus it will be one and not one."
"Then is it not even more impossible for it to come to be?'"
"But if they spent their time gorging themselves with food and drink and exchanging stories with each other and with the animals of the sort th even now are told about them, this too, if I may reveal how it seems to me, at least, is a matter that is easily judged."
"Many intellectuals in ancient Greece developed definitions: mathematicians, natural philosophers, educators such as Prodicus, and also Socrates, who believed that knowing correct definitions of ethical ideas would make people morally better."
"I mean the one which many people regard as the highest truth of all."
"you mean things which sometimes partake of what's good, sometimes of what's bad, and sometimes of neither, such as sitting or walking, running or making sea voyages, or stones and sticks and the like?"
"To its philosophy, or love of wisdom."
"If he turned the setting inward, he became invisible; if he turned it outward, he became visible again."
"That is quite undeniable, Socrates."
"Because he will know the healthy by medicine, but not by temperance, and the harmonious by music, but not by temperance, and housebuilding by that art, but not by temperance, and so on isn't it so?' '"
"That being so, it will be a matter for surprise if a virtuous person, whether slave or free, even if the state and society he lives in is run with only average skill, is ever so grossly neglected as to be reduced to abject poverty."
"All odors collectively are either vapor or mist, mist being what passes from air to water, and vapor what passes from water to air, and this is why odors as a group turn out to be finer than water, yet grosser than air."
"First, then, it is reasonable, according to the second of these names, to call the being or essence (ousia) of things 'Hestia'."
"However, although obviously we shall sanction them if that proves to be their effect, we shall reject them if they seem to disappoint our expectations."
"Well, I wanted to give Menexenus a break anyway, and I was pleased with the other's fondness for philosophy, so I turned the conversation towards Lysis, and said: 'I think you're right, Lysis, to say that if we were looking at things in the right way, we wouldn't be so far off course."
"But is the number of each anything other than its parts?"
": Won't we say that, because of his lack of education, the dronish appetites some beggarly and others evil exist in him, but that they're forcibly held in check by his carefulness?"
"Precisely that,' he said. '"
"See what way I have in mind."
"I did not think then that the danger I ran should make me do"
"My ancestors, I said, and my masters."
"Therefore the one would be different from the others.' 'Different.' '"
"Then if it should turn out one day that we were able to put an end to the body's needs so that it no longer had any, and we could do this without silver, gold, and other things of that kind which we don't actually use for the body (in the way that we use food, drink, clothing, blankets and houses), then it would appear that silver, gold, and other such things wouldn't even be useful to us for this particular purpose, provided that the body's needs can one day be removed without using them.'"
"However, Cebes, this seems to me well expressed, that the gods are our guardians and that men are one of their possessions."
"But in these, too, they must be tested to see whether they'll remain steadfast when they're pulled this way and"
"So, now, I propose to try to get our answer out of Theaetetus, not to make any contribution of my own."
"The Pythagorean connection is carried further in the dialogue itself, since Socrates' two fellow discussants, Simmias and Cebes from Thebes, the other city where expelled members of the brotherhood settled are associates of Philolaus, the leading Pythagorean there."
"See if you'll be willing to give me a refutation, then, by answering the questions you're asked."
"I suppose not, but what exactly do you mean by this?"
"Wouldn't you use the same name for somebody who bought and exchanged items of knowledge for money from city to city?"
"Yes, that is what it does."
"But thirst is a desire?"
"And the flesh itself succumbs back into the bloodstream, where it works to aggravate the previously mentioned diseases."
"Here too we must adopt the same procedure as before, because the legislator's job is not done if he simply lays down laws and gets quit of the business."
"And you'd also answer in the same way about names, since they are tools."
"At any event, many strange ones are indeed talked about."
"Don't all such practices do that, too?"
"Now, it is your task, Protarchus, to answer these difficult people, just as you answered me."
"And again that 'will be' and 'will come to be' and 'will be coming to be' signify partaking of time hereafter?' '"
"The cause I want to put forward are those 'non constitutions' that I've often mentioned earlier in our conversation democracy, oligarchy and tyranny."
"No sensible man would insist that these things are as I have described them, but I think it is fitting for a man to risk the belief for the risk is a noble one that this, or something like this, is true about our souls and their dwelling places, since the soul is evidently immortal, and a man should repeat this to himself as if it were an incantation, which is why I have been prolonging my tale."
"Furthermore, Socrates, Cebes rejoined, such is also the case if that theory is true that you are accustomed to mention frequently, that for us learning is no other than recollection."
"For the fact is, as we said ourselves at the beginning of this discussion, that one who intends to be an able rhetorician has no need to know the truth about the things that are just or good or yet about the people who are such either by nature or upbringing."
"Then first tell this simile to anyone who wonders why philosophers aren't honored in the cities, and try to persuade him that there would be far more cause for wonder if they were honored."
"Elsewhere, he changes somewhat: 'If this could be done,' he says, 'and intelligence could be instilled,' somehow those who could do this 'would collect large and numerous fees,' and further: 'Never would a bad son be born of a good father, for he would be persuaded by wise words, but you will never make a bad man good by teaching.'"
"And it's impossible, isn't it, for anyone to hit upon the nonexistent."
"Or do you think that someone who does not know at all who Meno is could know whether he is good looking or rich or well born, or the opposite of these?"
"And this is a task that requires great care."
"I will when we've come to an agreement and recalled some things that we've already said both here and many other times."
"Whether you invest them with the authority of the Spartan kings or agree upon some more limited powers for them, install them in something like the following manner."
"It would be very foolish for those who want to make someone a fluteplayer to refuse to send him to those who profess to teach the craft and make money at it, but to send him to make trouble for others by seeking to learn from those who do not claim to be teachers or have a single pupil in that subject which we want the one we send to learn from them?"
"So, let's now see what we have said."
"You were prophetic about one thing, I think,' said Eryximachus, 'that Agathon would speak well."
"Suppose I said, 'I ought to try first on my own account, and leave you two in safety while I see if the river is fordable for you two older men as well, or if not, just how bad it is."
"If, then, we should wish to investigate why it is that houses are not property in the eyes of the Scythians"
"What could they say?"
"Then would you tell the truth most powerfully about these things?"
"But as to building, I believe that it owes its superior level of craftsmanship over other disciplines to its frequent use of measures and instruments, which give it high accuracy."
"Next, let us return to a point made a little while ago and recall that we were very right to observe that if the human race were deprived of number, we would never come to be intelligent in anything."
"I think perhaps I have asked enough."
"Naturally, I won't ask which of you two is richer."
"Does not their difference lie in this?"
"And would any other person?"
"(although there were also some private individuals among them who had committed great crimes)."
"Opinion is concerned with becoming, intellect with being."
"This they do not discuss at all nor give any thought to, but their wisdom enables them to mix everything up and yet to be pleased with themselves, but if you are a philosopher I think you will do as I say."
"And it's likely it was when he discovered this clever and artful technique that Tisias wrote that if a weak but spunky man is taken to court because he beat up a strong but cowardly one and stole his cloak or something else, neither one should tell the truth."
"Whatever you say, you should pursue what is likely and leave the truth aside: the whole art consists in cleaving to that throughout your speech."
"While a thing from which something is absent is neither a whole nor a sum"
"They lose to the latter in their respective sports and are runners up behind them, but they place first among the other athletes and defeat them."
"And rightly; but who would you say are not willing to go to war, war being honorable and good?' '"
"At that too he failed."
"This much, surely, you can say:"
"Not of food or drink, anyhow."
"Or don't you remember?"
"He said he was going to sell it and give me half the proceeds to take to Dion; the other half he would keep here for the son, for this was clearly the most equitable procedure."
"He set the Moon in the first circle, around the earth, and the Sun in the second, above it."
"Then supposing a thing remains in the same place, but grows old, or becomes black instead of white, or hard instead of soft, or undergoes any other alteration; isn't it right to say that here we have motion in another form?"
"Phaedrus, you don't understand the expression 'Pleasant Bend' it originally referred to the long bend of the Nile."
"Because here, as we saw, it has come upon an unlike."
"I hope that this is the goal of your laws, that people will sing hymns to the gods and live purer lives, and then meet with the end that is at once best and finest."
"In the following conditions, however, it will be right to regard the killer as innocent:."
"For a start, a composer must be at least fifty years old, and he must not be one of those people who for all their poetical and musical competence have not a single noble or outstanding achievement to their credit."
"don't you think it's shameful to be the way I take you to be, and others who ever press on too far in philosophy?"
"Atalan had been assigned a place near the middle, and when she saw great honors being given to a male athlete, she chose his life, unable to pass them by."
"If there is anyone in your number who is incapable of living in the Dorian fashion like your fathers and follows the 'Sicilian life' of the slayers of Dion, do not ask his help nor imagine that he will act loyally or dependably."
"The upshot of it was that we made the man sitting at one end get up, and the man at the other end was toppled off sideways."
"As the argument stands at present, the whole will be different from the sum?"
"Then, is there any chance that such a person will practice philosophy?"
"The Guardians of the after deciding whether the crime was a childish peccadillo or not, must then take the matter straight to court, and exact from the culprits the penalty for their impiety."
"In addition to these there was a great population of elephants."
"Nevertheless I dismissed all these thoughts and came to you, determined that no friend of mine should ever be able to claim that he had lost all his goods when they could have been saved by my efforts."
"Those who pass the scrutiny are to sit in judgment on the cases of the litigants who refuse to accept the decision of the other courts."
"No, I do more than 'assume': I'd say he argues the point explicitly."
"Have you not seen this happen?"
"Well, isn't our Theaetetus better able to follow the investigation of a theory than many an old fellow with a long beard?"
"But can you tell me why members of the human race are called 'humans' ('anthro¯poi')?"
"But you strike me, Euthydemus, as having fallen asleep with your eyes open; and if it is possible to speak and say nothing, you are doing exactly that."
"There they dwell and are purified by penalties for any wrongdoing they may have committed; they are also suitably rewarded for their good deeds as each deserves."
"Is it a god, or a man?"
"C. Gorgias wrestling school, getting his body into good shape and becoming a boxer, went on to strike his father and mother or any other family member or friend."
"Rather, if it's to be fine and good, and a sound judge of just things, it must itself remain pure and have no experience of bad character while it's young."
"And weren't you the answerer?"
"Shall we say that the man who says this is saying the truth, Hippias?"
"Well, take the sun, if you like."
"Timaeus so quickly that the body would of necessity require fresh nourishment just as quickly, thereby rendering it insatiable."
"So as we said just now, let's adopt this as the statement of our views."
"But, then, is this a fair exchange that you propose?"
"And calculating, measuring, and weighing are the work of the rational part of the soul."
"Nor about vice, either, for these must be learned together, just as the truth and error about any part of being must be learned together, through long and earnest labor, as I said at the beginning."
"Hold on, by Zeus who are you speaking with now?"
"There followed several other speeches which he couldn't remember very well."
"I think I must have been in an appalling state for a long time, without being aware of it."
"When you uttered the name 'boulapteroun' just now, you looked just as if you were whistling the flute prelude of the Hymn to Athena!"
"And now, at least, it's turned out to be worse."
"In the future, let's consider things together."
"Such a practice must never be extenuated by an approving reference to maxims like 'One good turn deserves another'."
"Yes, this judge the legislator would be incomparably better."
"Let's have an answer."
"So then I said, 'My question was addressed to everybody, and if you think you can give a better answer, then I'll ask you the same thing:"
"Neither Meletus nor Anytus can harm me in any way; he could not harm me, for I do not think it is permitted that a better man be harmed by a worse; certainly he might kill me, or perhaps banish or disfranchise me, which he and maybe others think to be great harm, but I do not think so."
"The two men themselves were pretty well advanced in years when they made a start on this wisdom I want to get; I mean the eristic sort."
"I shall keep to what I stated at the beginning, the virtue of likely accounts, and so shall try right from the start to say about things, both individually and collectively, what is no less likely than any more likely, in fact, than what I have said before."
"When dawn comes up and brings another day, the children must be sent off to their teachers."
"Thereupon she went through for me what the speaker ought to say, in part out of her head, in part by pasting together some bits and pieces thought up before, at the time when she was composing the funeral oration which Pericles delivered, as, in my opinion, she did."
"But this boy approaches his studies in a smooth, sure, effective way, and with great good temper; it reminds one of the quiet flow of a stream of oil."
"It certainly is, Socrates, said Polemarchus, interrupting, if indeed we're to trust Simonides at all."
"Or that for the sake of a newfound and replaceable boyfriend in the bloom of youth, he'd strike his aged and irreplaceable father, his oldest friend?"
"Very many people do that."
"I don't know how you do it!"
"These: 'First of all, men of Syracuse, accept laws that you think will not arouse your desires and turn your thoughts toward money making and wealth."
"It's as if someone now were to make me skilled in letters: he would necessarily make the other things that have to do with letters good for me; and likewise with music too."
"Socrates, with your permission and approval I'll gladly hold public office; otherwise I won't."
"That's what was said."
"Poetry and rhetorical praises will play to their pride and encourage arrogance."
"And what about the rest?"
"He assesses the penalty at death."
"What is our view of this kind?"
"For it was with eyes on that deed that the Greeks dared to risk the battles for their deliverance that followed pupils of the men who fought at Marathon. '"
"If a defendant is found guilty, (a) he must in future be debarred from (i) competing for any kind of military distinction,"
"But really the name 'Pherrephatta' indicates that the goddess is wise for since things are being swept along, wisdom is the power to grasp (ephaptomenon), comprehend (epapho¯n), and follow (epakolouthein) them."
"For the first two, see a and."
"He became a brilliant Athenian politician and general in the Peloponnesian War, but he defected to the Spartan side when accused of capital crimes in Athens and later became a double agent in the war between Athens and Persia."
"Verbal or written decrees will never make them come about or last."
"But it isn't the easiest thing in the world to grasp the tribe we're planning to search for I mean, the sophist or say what it is."
"But when rulers and subjects in this condition meet on a journey or some other common undertaking it might be a festival, an embassy, or a campaign, or they might be shipmates or fellow soldiers and see one another in danger, in these circumstances are the poor in any way despised by the rich?"
"I'm so far from fearing death that now I actually passionately desire it."
"Yes, but what is its character?"
"As far as Melesias here"
"Consider it this way: if it were two feet this way, and only one foot that way, the figure would be once two feet?"
"Socrates/Glaucon Then, if this is true of the one, won't it also be true of all numbers?"
"And I said in reply, 'Exactly as you see me.' '"
"so the words I use are not directed against you; they're like what he says to me, harsh and grotesque. '"
"Yes, I believe I'd call that profit."
"But you must see for yourself, Protarchus."
"Would that answer our needs?"
"So if it's really the case that one can learn about things through names and that one can also learn about them through themselves, which would be the better and clearer way to learn about them?"
"As for Thersites and any other private citizen who was wicked, no one has depicted him as surrounded by the most grievous punishments, as though he were incurable; he wasn't in that position, I suppose, and for that reason he's also happier than those who were."
"And of course if he did what's appropriate with respect to human beings, he would be doing what's just, and with respect to gods he would be doing what's pious, and one who does what's just and pious must necessarily be just and pious."
"We must make some distinctions, and examine the question rather like this: suppose somebody were to arrange a competition, and were to leave its character entirely open, not specifying whether it was to be gymnastic, artistic or equestrian."
"The trainer, I guess."
": No one should restrain these genuinely 'holy' hunters from taking their hounds where they like and as they like; but the night trapper, who relies on nets and snares, must not be allowed by anyone, at any time or place, to hunt his prey."
"Er saw the soul of Thamyr choosing the life of a nightingale, a swan choosing to change over to a human life, and other musical animals doing the same thing."
"The latter is the case; they are never in the same state."
"So when a man has drawn his lot, he must take over his holding on the terms stated."
"For the first capture, see Iliad."
"The terms of this interval of the portion left over made a numerical ratio of."
"Why then,' the argument might say, 'are you still unconvinced?"
"I don't know which ones you're calling major."
"On the other hand, because he is unwilling to associate with human beings while they have their bodies, but converses with them only when their souls are purified of all the desires and evils of the body, doesn't he seem to you to be a philosopher?"
"Rather, you say that every action is virtue if it is performed with a part of virtue, as if you had said what virtue is as a whole, so I would already know that, even if you fragment it into parts."
"it in turn shakes them."
"Or is there nothing in what I say?"
"to whom or what does it give them?"
"Momus is a personification of blame or censure."
"Do you share the view that a woman's prime lasts about twenty years and a man's about thirty?"
"But do you think he did not want some other people to be worthy men, and especially his own son?"
"Let it make no difference to us which term we use: is it teachable?"
"Or haven't you noticed how far images are from having the same features as the things of which they are images?"
"What I propose we should say is that it only takes root, through laws, in those dispositions that were both born noble in the first place and have been nurtured in accordance with their nature; and that it is for these that this remedy exists, by virtue of expertise."
"He should give up and abandon all that small talking, so he won't be thought a complete fool for applying himself, as he is now, to babbling nonsense."
"But, on the other hand, wouldn't someone who maintains that just things are profitable be saying, first, that all our words and deeds should insure that the human being within this human being has the most control; second, that he should take care of the many headed beast as a farmer does his animals, feeding anddomesticating the gentle heads and preventing the savage ones from growing; and, third, that he should make the lion's nature"
"Instead, we should always accustom our souls to turn as quickly as possible to healing the disease and putting the disaster right, replacing lamentation with cure."
"Since these are to be citizens of a free, self governing state, the laws must have 'preambles' that explain the purposes for which they are instituted, so as to gain the willing acquiescence of those to whom they apply: commands backed by threats (contained in the bare text of the law) are otherwise not appropriately addressed to a free person (book."
"And you can ask me, too, if I'm not the same; for I will also agree with you that I love good things."
"A lot seems to hinge on whether or not we give the right answer to this question."
"Reading eniote kathaper at a. in the future through the depravity of their steersmen and sailors, who have acquired the greatest ignorance about the greatest things although they have no understanding at all about what belongs to the art of statesmanship, they think they have completely acquired this sort of expert knowledge, most clearly of them all."
"Under this constitution, won't the same people be farmers, money makers, and soldiers simultaneously?"
"' Protagoras 'Different actions?' '"
"And Ctesippus said, By Posidon, what marvelous arguments!"
"And in conceding the truth of the opinion of those who think him wrong, he is really admitting the falsity of his own opinion?"
"But won't our constitution be perfectly ordered, if a guardian who knows these things is in charge of it?"
"Certainly, I think there are such things."
"Yes, that's our Cretan version, and we add that Minos' brother, Rhadamanthus doubtless you know the name was an absolute paragon of justice."
"Won't you stop adding things on again?"
"You see, you have had much more experience of this particular skill than of the other."
"sentence will be ever at your heels, and either while you're still alive on earth or after you've descended into Hades or been taken to some even more remote place, you'll pay the proper penalty of your crimes."
"It presupposes men who won't turn up their noses at living in such a community, and who will tolerate a moderate and fixed level of wealth throughout their lives, and the supervision of the size of each individual's family as we've suggested."
"that's inferior; whereas anyone who makes off with some valuable object he did not deposit indulges his criminal tendencies to the full."
"I know, Callicles, that there are four of you who've become partners in wisdom, you, Teisander of Aphidnae, Andron the son of Androtion, and Nausicydes of Cholarges."
"If a man kills someone while saving the life of his father (provided the latter is not committing a crime), or while rescuing his mother or children or brothers, or the mother of his children, he shall be completely innocent."
"They have no permanent agreed standard of what is becoming or unbecoming either in deportment or their possessions in general; they worship anyone who is always introducing some novelty or doing something unconventional to shapes and colors and all that sort of thing."
"You see, it's not mastery that enables them to speak those verses, but a divine power, since if they knew how to speak beautifully on one type of poetry by mastering the subject, they could do so for all the others also."
"Timaeus is here describing the uncontrolled movements of a new born animal."
"I don't know either of them, Socrates."
"This being the way of things, a good man will regard his elderly forebears as a veritable god send, right up till they breathe their last; and when they pass on, they will be sorely missed by the next generation, and be a terror to the wicked."
"Since it is so, won't it be both in itself and in another?' '"
"Sight may be present in the eyes, and the one who has it may try to use it, and colors may be present in things, but unless a third kind of thing is present, which is naturally adapted for this very purpose, you know that sight will see nothing, and the colors will remain unseen."
"You are both justified in what you say, and I think you mean that I must make a defense against this, as if I were in court."
"Then how did it happen?"
"And even after death, when the blood cools down, if the fibers are extracted from the blood and collected, the residue will still be completely runny, while if they are left in the blood, they, along with the surrounding cold, congeal it in no time."
"They reveal, reincarnated in themselves, the character of the ancient Tita of the story, and thanks to getting into the same position as the Titans did, they live a wretched life of endless misery."
"Isn't the beautiful beautiful and the ugly ugly?"
"But I suppose, Euthydemus, that the father of you and the puppies has benefited greatly from this wisdom of yours!"
"But, in pursuing a mean between ostentation and servility, they built for themselves tasteful houses"
"Let's then put astronomy as the fourth subject, on the assumption that solid geometry will be available if a city takes it up."
"e<U+03C5> <U+03B8>e<U+03B9>a (eumatheia), cleverness: the mental talent to learn quickly."
"And knowing the things that they know, are they ignorant, or wise?"
"But I shall be very grateful if you can rescue the orphan."
"This is the question, son of Dionysius and Doris, that causes all the trouble; or rather, this it is that produces in the soul the pains of childbirth, from which she must be delivered, or she will never really attain truth."
"And as for manly bravery, 'Not even Ares can stand up to' Love!"
"That's all I've heard."
"Why do you say this?"
"because how would I know the nature of a thing when neither you nor Critias is able to discover it, as you say?"
"You see, one inevitably gets irritable and annoyed with these people who have put us to the trouble, and continue to put us to the trouble, of composing these explanations."
"And if you analyze them adequately, you will, I think, follow the argument as far as a man can, and if the conclusion is clear, you will look no further."
"You're neglecting the things you should devote yourself to, Socrates, and though your spirit's nature is so noble, you show yourself to the world in the shape of a boy."
"Wise, surely, in just these things: in deception."
"I am beginning to see your point,'"
"Furthermore, if some matter of great importance to you should arise such that you would be benefited immediately if an expenditure were made but injured if it were not made or were delayed until word had come from you, the situation would be not only damaging but humiliating for you."
"Let's look at it this way."
"That's what he seems like to me.' '"
"Or if we were healthy, wouldn't each be?"
"Suppose my thought is that 'This is Theaetetus one who is a human being, and has a nose and eyes and mouth', and so on through the whole list of limbs."
"Since there is nothing else apart from the others and the one, and since they must be in something, must they not in fact be in each other"
"You don't think there is any?"
"On the other hand we previously agreed that if the soul were a harmony, it would never be out of tune with the stress and relaxation and the striking of the strings or anything else done to its composing elements, but that it would follow and never direct them?"
"But not that the better should have a greater share?"
"Think about what a good moment we picked to fight it out against people like that, and to force them further to let one thing blend with another."
"And the double square was to be how many feet?"
"Sisyphus is in relation to the sides of the areas it bisects."
"Then it is the ignorant who learn, Clinias, and not the wise, as you suppose."
"So the same view should be taken of time spent in one's cups if, that is, we may think of it as a legitimate parallel."
"I'll answer for him."
"What of an orator or a king who acquires enough power to match Lycurgus, Solon, or Darius as a lawgiv and acquires immortal fame as a speech writer in his city?"
"These are about all my obligations at present."
"I find it acutely difficult to say for sure that the constitution we have in Cnossus comes into any of these categories."
"They insist violently that true being is certain nonbodily forms that can be thought about."
"Yet they're nothing in either number or size compared to those that await just and unjust people after death."
"The subject of women and children has been adequately dealt with, but that of the rulers has to be taken up again from the beginning."
"Each should attend lessons."
"And it wouldn't surprise me if they were better, for you've both investigated these matters for yourself and learned about them from others."
"They must proceed to election in the temple which the state considers to be the most venerable; each elector should place on the altar of the god a small tablet on which he has written the name of the person he wishes to vote for, adding the candidate's father, tribe, and deme; and he should append his own name with the same details."
"We've been waiting for some time, indeed, for you to tell us about the production of children how they'll be produced and, once born, how they'll be brought up and about the whole subject of having wives and children in common."
"Come, then, let's see if these are the only primary names or if there are many others."
"He seems to have a whole supply of roadblocks, and whenever he throws one down in our way we have to fight through it before we can get to him."
"Would you find it acceptable to live your whole life in enjoyment of the greatest pleasures?"
"Well, it doesn't seem to me now that there can be any difference between whole and sum."
"Accompanied by his disciple Zeno (originator of Zeno's paradoxes), Parmenides has come on a visit to Athens."
"Now wasn't the one shown both to be and not to be?' '"
"Those which point to rest or those which point to motion?"
"And yet, I think, there could be nothing more irrational than this."
"And in all these matters, he knows not even that he knows not; for he does not hold himself aloof from them in order to get a reputation, but because it is in reality only his Theaetetus body that lives and sleeps in the city."
"Quite so, said Cebes."
"We would find ourselves in a rather ridiculous position if we were confined entirely to those divine kinds of knowledge, Socrates!"
"Now a word regarding your funds at Athens and their expenditure."
"This is the nature of justice, according to the argument, Socrates, and these are its natural origins."
"Is there a form itself of human being, or fire, or water?'"
"I think you know that yourself."
"That's good to hear."
"For if each of them is a part, 'each,' of course, signifies that it is one thing, detached from the others and being by itself, if in fact it is to be each.' '"
"These are not easily produced, but when they are born and are nurtured and trained in the necessary way, it is absolutely right for such people to be able to hold the inferior majority in subjection by thinking, doing and saying all that concerns the gods in the right ways at the right times, not hypocritically performing sacrifices and purification rites for violations against gods and humans, but in truth honoring virtue."
"But that which is always changeless and motionless cannot become either older or younger in the course of time it neither ever became so, nor is it now such that it has become so, nor will it ever be so in the future."
"There is something you call hot and something you call cold."
"Those who are deemed incurable because of the enormity of their crimes, having committed many great sacrileges or wicked and unlawful murders and other such wrongs"
"Now if we didn't know what a shoe was, would we have known what skill makes a shoe better?"
"My good people, young and old,' he will say, 'you sit here orating; you drag in gods, whose existence or nonexistence I exclude from all discussion, written or spoken;."
"And they shouldn't be told in our city, Adeimantus."
"The authorities must act as inspectors in this business, as well as in all other cases when someone uses his own property deliberately to inflict violent or surreptitious damage on another man or some piece of his property without his permission."
"Certainly to those, said Cebes."
"What I'm worried about is that I might say something ridiculous.' '"
"Of course they will, more than anybody else."
"To get 'epihiste¯me¯', revealing more clearly the derivation from 'epi' and 'histe¯si'."
"Then, it follows that a just soul and a just man will live well, and an unjust one badly."
"This description of the exploitation of the problem by naughty boys recalls strikingly (even in the words used) Socrates' explanation of why boys should not have access to dialectic (R. b)."
"they will find more persuasive."
"For true opinions, as long as they remain, are a fine thing and all they do is good, but they are not willing to remain long, and they escape from a man's mind, so that they are not worth much until one ties them down by (giving) an account of the reason why."
"And you would say that endurance accompanied by wisdom is a fine and noble thing?"
"Very true.' 'Could something partake of being except in one of those ways?' '"
"Their scrutiny, and the requirement as to age, should be the same as in the case of the Priests; these three must hold office for life, and when one dies the group of four tribes in which the vacancy occurs should make nominations for a replacement."
"Obviously you're going to ask next what the best constitution is."
"The right to make a valid betrothal should rest initially with the bride's father, secondly with her grandfather, thirdly with her brothers by the same father."
"(They, however, must put on some suitable clothing before presenting themselves as competitors in these races.)"
"You say that being always stays the same and in the same state, but coming to be varies from one time to another. '"
"And if this quietness is deep, one falls into an all but dreamless sleep."
"Plato visited there shortly before."
"my dear Phaedrus, you understand how shameless the speeches were, my own as well as the one in your book."
"So beyond a shadow of a doubt here's the next subject for explanation and the next topic to listen to."
"The segment from this, a part relating to a two footed flock, concerned with rearing of human beings, still left on its own"
"In every case, though, we always need to be in agreement about the thing itself by means of a verbal explanation, rather than doing without any such explanation and merely agreeing about the name."
"By contrast, the philosophy drawn upon in the second, dialectical, half of the dialogue is linked closely to the much more austere, logically oriented investigations via the 'method of divisions' that we find in and Philebus where the grasp of any important philosophical idea (any Form) proceeds by patient, detailed mapping of its relations to other concepts and to its own subvarieties, not through an awe inspiring vision of a self confined, single brilliant entity."
"Is this what you're saying?"
"I think you are not unaware of the events of the last few days: Archelaus of Macedon was in love with a man whose love for Archelaus' kingship was greater than Archelaus' love for him, and who killed his lover in order to make himself a king and a happy man."
"As for this financial expert of yours, he'll turn out to be making more money for somebody else instead of himself; for you, in fact, if you've got the ability to speak and to persuade the crowds."
"I'm a broken yardstick as far as handsome people are concerned, because practically everyone of that age strikes me as beautiful."
"the same state and the same citizens (who should all be the same sort of people, as far as possible), should enjoy the same pleasures in the same fashion: that is the secret of a happy and a blessed life."
"you've helped me out."
"Or can you two, Clinias and Megillus, answer for him and tell me precisely what your notion of his aim is, just as I've often given you detailed accounts of the notions of many other people on their behalf?"
"Critias (an Athenian) offers to do this, on the supposition that the Athens of nine thousand years before was governed by the institutions of Socrates' city, as a myth from Egypt that he has heard recited has suggested to him."
"So in this way, too, it would not be just what it is one but would be different from one.'"
"We repeat that this is the point the legislator must look out for, and so must we here and now."
"Now when I'm under interrogation on this sort of topic, and such questions as the following are put to me, the safest replies seem to be these."
"Critias said that this city of Athens was the ruler of the Mediterranean peoples and fought for the duration of the entire war."
"Well, perhaps you'll understand if you follow me this way."
"I say that if the self controlled soul is a good one, then a soul that's been affected the opposite way of the self controlled one is a bad one."
"What should we say, Hippias?"
"No, I certainly don't, by Zeus!"
"Perhaps this will make it clearer."
"The upshot of all this, I suppose, is that for millions of years these techniques remained unknown to primitive man."
"Next, consider astronomy."
"It is very much to the point; but you are right that he speaks enigmatically, just like a poet."
"So now that you've heard the story, use your own judgment: would you be glad to have as a resident in your house or as a neighbor a man who in spite of considerable courage was immoderate and licentious?"
"Well then, tell me: if we give drink to this puppet of ours, what effect do we have on it?"
"Being an Athenian, Socrates, you surely aren't going to forget Athena, or Hephaestus and Ares either, for that matter."
"So, if he is really going to hold them with the greatest shackles, he has to bind them with the greatest desire."
"Still, we must make the best of it: we don't want both sides maddened at once, they by their greed for pleasure, we by our anger at their condition."
"But, for our own good, we ourselves should employ a more austere and less pleasure giving poet and storyteller, one who would imitate the speech of a decent person and who would tell his stories in accordance with the patterns we laid down when we first undertook the education of our soldiers."
"So you're saying that a false belief is believing those which are not."
"So all the officials except the council and members of the Executi should meet at the temple of Apollo and hold a secret ballot, each man voting for whichever Guardian of the"
"Catamite: passive partner (esp."
"One poet is attached to one Muse, another to another"
"unbeknown to all except his immediate circle; and suppose he squanders the family resources on the grounds that he can do as he likes with his own property, so that his son is driven to distraction but hesitates to bring a charge of lunacy."
"To Erato, they report those who honored her by dedicating themselves to the affairs of love, and so too with the other Muses, according to the activity that honors each."
"But I think the majority of people fail to recognize that for some of the things there are, there are certain perceptible likenesses which are there to be easily understood, and which it is not at all hard to point out when one wants to make an easy demonstration, involving no trouble and without recourse to verbal means, to someone who asks for an account of one of these things."
"So we have sufficiently established that all things come to be in this way, opposites from opposites?"
"Aren't they those who are confident?'"
"But the soundest and most important rule is this: if you mean to be perfect, you should seek to live in good repute only if you are really good in the first place, but not otherwise."
"Hold it right there!"
"So that's a better one."
"I'm sure, however, that you're not saying that either arithmetic or geometry is oratory."
"Yes, sir, that's a splendid recapitulation of the argument."
"When we call it 'even' and define it as 'a number divisible into two', it's the same thing we're talking about."
"<U+03BF><U+03B8>e t<U+03B7><U+03C2> (nomothete¯s), lawgiver:"
"Just answer me, please."
"do the very thing I was doing, namely, to practice the art of philosophy, this being the highest kind of art, and I was doing that."
"Socrates became the pursued, Alcibiades the pursuer."
"Don't you think it could happen?"
"What arguments are there for it?"
"rhoe¯) of a river, he says that 'you cannot step into the same river twice.'"
"Yet law was not wicked?"
"It seems to me that we have to deal with them this way."
"If he is convicted on such a charge, he must be punished by death, on the grounds that his conduct is wrecking the entire state and its laws."
"What is the accusation from which arose the slander in which Meletus trusted when he wrote."
"I expect they keep such matters to be explained at leisure to their pupils whom they want to make like themselves."
"the one I take it to be?"
"And since he always (aei) makes his shots (bolo¯n), because of his skill in archery, he is also 'Aeiballo¯n'"
"Bodies afflicted by an excess of earth, the most sluggish of the four, are purged within a fourfold cycle of time and produce fevers that occur every fourth day, fevers that are hard to get over."
"The legislator must then mark out five thousand and forty holdings, and further divide each into two parts; he should then make an individual holding consist of two such parts coupled so that each has a partner near the center or the boundary of the state as the case may be."
"For instance, suppose a man has bought a coat and it is at his disposal"
"Now at the time when he does this, he will be writing 'Theaetetus' not only with correct judgment, but with command of the way through its letters; that must be so whenever he writes them out one after another in their order."
"Well, we must take our courage in our hands and declare something astonishing in relation to these two."
"So you are the brother of gudgeons and puppies and piglets."
"In that case, the law guardians must turn themselves into law makers and frame a second law for people to observe."
"It's not only by law, then, that doing what's unjust is more shameful than suffering it, or just to have an equal share, but it's so by nature, too."
"Consider which of your statements you prefer, that learning is recollection or that the soul is a harmony."
"Pericles was the most influential Athenian politician of the mid fifth century."
"And with good reason, said I, because I am weaker than either of you, so that I do not hesitate to run away from you both together."
"One is stronger and superior, and acts as master; the other, which is weaker and inferior, is a slave; and so a man must always respect the master in him in preference to the slave."
"Axiochus, you don't give a true account of me; you think, like most Athenians, that just because I'm an inquirer"
"For instance, all things which we use for work are useful, of course, just as all things that have life are animals, but of these animals we call one species man."
"Cratylus are all flowing and that nothing stands fast for the cause and originator of them"
"And so he began to think of making a moving image of eternity: at the same time as he brought order to the universe, he would make an eternal image, moving according to number, of eternity remaining in unity."
"These are skills which all citizens, male and female, must take care to acquire."
"it's only his efficiency"
"In giving vent to strongly worded assertions of his own moral commitments, he seems to adopt a conception of 'irrational' desires like that of incompatible with the views he works with in the other 'Socratic' dialogues."
"What mechanism could possibly turn any agreement into knowledge when it begins with something unknown and puts together the conclusion and the steps in between from what is unknown?"
"At the very least, he must shun such vices on the day of his wedding and the following night, because if a human institution gets off to a good and careful start, there is a sort of divine guarantee that it will prosper."
"Now, what about enemies?"
"Very well,' they would continue, 'and after you were born and nurtured and educated, could you, in the first place, deny that you are our offspring and servant, both you and your forefathers?"
"Accepting the conjecture proesis for prosthesis in."
"These are the first questions we have to answer, and then with these preliminary lessons to guide us we may advance to the remaining studies."
"Wouldn't the son of that thrifty oligarch be brought up in his father's ways?"
"And through a clarification of these states, the nature of both pleasure and desire will somehow be revealed."
"And if what I say sounds crude, Socrates, remember that it isn't I who speak but those who praise injustice at the expense of justice."
": let me have my turn, and you try the kind of refutation I think is called for."
"But see whether you want me to do that or not."
"When you say this, will you be surprised if your arguments seem to move about instead of staying put?"
"What about despoiling the dead?"
"I don't mean just its name"
"So, Laches and Nicias, each of you tell us who is the cleverest person with whom you have associated in this matter of educating young men, and whether you acquired your knowledge of the art from another person or found it out for yourselves, and, if you learned it from some one, who were your respective teachers, and what other persons share the same art with them."
"Non lovers, on the other hand, are friends with you even before they achieve their goal, and you've no reason to expect that benefits received will ever detract from their friendship for you."
"that really does care for the body and is entitled to rule all these crafts and use their products because of its knowledge of what food or drink is good or bad for bodily excellence, a knowledge which all of the others lack."
"Yes, and we said, I think, that those who received this training shouldn't consider gold or silver or anything else as their own private property."
"But now you listen to me, too."
"You must therefore compel them to form the habit of speaking about these things as well as other matters; for it is your duty to know everything, so far as possible, and pass judgment and not shrink from any facts."
"You have seen this yourself in the comedy of Aristophanes, a Socrates swinging about there, saying he was walking on air and talking a lot of other nonsense about things of which I know nothing at all."
"Similarly, a doctor's medicines, which have different colors and perfumes added to them,."
"So naturally he will be even more acutely embarrassed at standing up and singing in front of the varied audience in a theater."
"This remaining task he went on to perform, casting the world into the nature of its model."
"Well then, I said, if you ask a question with one thing in mind"
"Nothing, if that is what he thought."
"Am I a brother of Euthydemus?"
"When so compressed by air, earth is insoluble in water and constitutes itself as stone."
"Because then we'd have to agree that those who imitate sheep, cocks, or other animals are naming the things they imitate."
"And though it's not quite fair to those of us who have to speak last, if the first speeches turn out to be good enough and to exhaust our subject, I promise we won't complain."
"What else, do you think, than honor, reverence, and what I mentioned just now, to please them?"
"wouldn't he be able to sell this skill, if that's what he wanted to do?'"
"And on many other things, too, my friend."
"but I don't remember it at the moment."
"What difference does it make to you, whether I believe it or not?"
"Acumenus was a doctor and a relative of the doctor Eryximachus who speaks in the ."
"Perhaps an adaptation of Seven Against Thebes."
"Well, then, won't you please come in and see who's here?' '"
"Eudoxus of Cnidus, one of the foremost mathematicians of the fourth century, had moved his school from Cyzicus to Athens and merged it with the Academy."
"And we also agreed that he loves just what he needs and does not have.'"
"But if people are doing something together, it is enough if they agree with one another."
"Well, you know, Clinias, a lot of old expressions are extraordinarily apt"
"Then the horse on the right Goad him, shout him on, easing the reins with your hands."
"But now beauty alone has this privilege, to be the most clearly visible and the most loved."
"The healthy and unhealthy life should be regarded in the same way: they both offer pleasures and pains, but the pleasures outweigh the pains in the healthy life, vice versa in the unhealthy."
"So don't rely on this argument which makes a unity of all the things that are most opposed."
"As for the world's soul, even though we are now embarking on an account of it after we've already given an account of its body, it isn't the case that the god devised it to be younger than the body."
"For it is not put together with the purpose of causing the coming into being of something, as a tool is, but for the sake of preserving what craftsmen have produced."
"The foregoing described how diseases of the body happen to come about."
"We're agreed about imitators, then."
"Cosmetics is the one that wears that of gymnastics in the same way; a mischievous, deceptive, disgraceful and ill bred thing, one that perpetrates deception by means of shaping and coloring, smoothing out and dressing up, so as to make people assume an alien beauty and neglect their own, which comes through gymnastics."
"So justice and good sense are one and the same.' '"
"Their behavior was the antithesis of what could be expected of 'temperate' (so¯phro¯n) gentlemen."
"But I didn't ask for that what ordinary people think is fine but for what is fine.'"
"And doesn't the juxtaposition of these pleasures and pains make them appear intense, so that they give rise to mad erotic passions in the foolish, and are fought over in just the way that Stesichorus tells us the phantom of Helen was fought over at Troy by men ignorant of the truth?"
"As far as I'm concerned, Socrates, you've made me say far more than ever was in me, Heaven knows."
"Or are you really so forgetful?"
"I take my stand on the truth being as I have written it."
"Well, come sit down and give us a complete account, because we've had very few details so far.'"
"Then there's a second class that always distinguishes itself from the majority of people."
"That is, try it on the dog or on a guinea pig."
"I don't think I have anything clearly in view, at least not at present.' '"
"Why, Socrates,' said Agathon. '"
"Hence our anxiety to speak with some force."
"For instance, an ox or a sheep: do you regard these as yours because you are free to."
"Hippocrates here has gotten to the point where he wants to be your student, and, quite naturally, he would like to know what he will get out of it if he does study with you."
"I'll try to enumerate them for you if I can."
"Well, try it this way."
"So my line of questioning now will still concern the subject of our present discussion, namely virtue, but translated into the sphere of poetry."
"Can the others be related to it, if, necessarily, nothing belongs to it?'"
"Then won't a person of understanding direct all his efforts to attaining that state of his soul?"
"A lover is more godlike than his boy, you see, since he is inspired by a god."
"And it occurs to me as I'm speaking that we said, didn't we, that it is necessary for the prospective rulers to be athletes in war when they're young?"
"But suppose you were going to use them, but were going to make a bad and harmful use of them?"
"As for Critias, I'm sure that all of us here in Athens know that he's no mere layman in any of the areas we're talking about."
"that someone who says he's made someone else good should find fault with that person, charging that he, whom he himself made to become and to be good, is after all wicked?"
"Well, then, what if you wanted to become wise in horsemanship?"
"You're unable to oppose what your beloveds say or propose, so that if somebody heard you say what you do on their account and was amazed at how absurd that is, you'd probably say if you were minded to tell him the truth that unless somebody stops your beloveds from saying what they say, you'll never stop saying these things either."
"And what I say is true."
"If anyone hears this and says, 'Plato apparently claims to know what is good for a democracy, but though he is at liberty to speak in the assembly and give it his best advice, he has never yet stood up and said a word,' you can answer by saying, 'Plato was born late in the life of his native city, and he found the demos advanced in years and habituated by former advisers to many practices incompatible with the advice he would give."
"And is there such a thing as feeling neither pleasure nor pain?"
"So since there is true and false speech, and of the processes just mentioned, thinking appeared to be the soul's conversation with itself, belief the conclusion of thinking, and what we call appearing the blending of perception and belief"
"By Heracles, he said, that's just Socrates' usual irony."
"What private training can hold out and not be swept away by that kind of praise or blame and be carried by the flood wherever it goes, so that he'll say that the same things are beautiful or ugly"
"At any rate, this sort of thing is not forbidden in oligarchies."
"indeed it is unholy, whereas the Carthaginians make such sacrifices as something that is holy and lawful for them, and in fact some of them sacrifice even their own sons to Cronus, as perhaps you have heard yourself."
"But you think it will be more in Sicily, more in Inycon?"
"No, I call it good judgment."
"Ion And how about the subjects on which they do not say the same things?"
"Don't worry and I am speaking on behalf of the two of us."
"whoever it is we mournfully think we are burying."
"That's rather a long story,' she said."
"There are many people who appear to be physically fit, and unless one is a doctor or one of the fitness experts, one wouldn't readily notice that they're not fit."
"They think that sort of thing is obvious, so they skip over it and ask which one would be advantageous to do."
"When it has become quite mobile it is spread out upon the ground under pressure from the air surrounding it."
"Aren't they the ones who count?"
"Are some people better than others at thinking about what course of action to follow?"
"As it received the flow of water that came off the mountains, and as this water circulated and reached the city on two sides, the trench allowed the water to flow out to the sea."
"When the old laws applied, my friends, the people were not in control: on the contrary, they lived in a kind of 'voluntary slavery' to the laws."
"You see, Meletus, that you are silent and know not what to say."
"The other was revolution, a forward motion under thedominance of the circular carrying movement of the Same and uniform."
"We thought of our combined metaphor of head and intellect, which we mentioned a moment ago, as idealistic dreami"
"I.e., 'philosophize,' 'engage in philosophy.'"
"Then what do you think he does do to a bed?"
"We are resolved to force no one to drink more than he wants."
"The same is true of verbs."
"And there were savage men, all fiery to look at, who were standing by, and when they heard the roar, they grabbed some of these criminals and led them away, but they bound the feet, hands, and head of Ardiaeus and the others, threw them down, and flayed them."
"Tell us everything as precisely as you can."
"So it seems that even as a child you thought you understood justice and injustice."
"Let's go on and say what properties the others must have, if one is not.' '"
"And then I also made him agree that with everything else concerning the body the moderate is the most beneficial, neither a large nor a small amount; and he agreed with me about that. '"
"As for craftsmen in general, our policy should be this."
"It is much rather those among the young who pay their fees who are mad, and even more the relatives who entrust their young to them and most of all the cities who allow them to come in and do not drive out any citizen or stranger who attempts to behave in this manner."
"No, sir, we certainly cannot."
"It's the same story when he makes me good: inevitably he's made the other things good for me too.' '"
"For he inflicted pain upon his spectators with his singing."
"Alternatively, 'from those evil men.'."
"we label combat, and the part that's secret we call hunting."
"But you, unless you order me to be satisfied, wouldn't, for you've spent your whole life investigating this and nothing else."
"In fact, the genuinely correct way to regulate drinking can hardly be explained adequately and clearly except in the context of a correct theory of culture; and it is impossible to explain this without considering the whole subject of education."
"It's not worth arguing about this now, Apollodorus."
"Well, said Thrasymachus, are we here to search for go or to listen to an argument?"
"And the soul,' he said, 'my dear friend, is cured by means of certain charms, and these charms consist of beautiful words."
"Well really, what do you mean?"
"We agreed earlier that the god had revealed a division of what is into the unlimited and the limit."
"That's how it is with you, Ion: when anyone mentions Homer, you have plenty to say, but if he mentions the others you are lost; and the explanation of this, for which you ask me why it is that you have plenty to say about Homer but not about the others is that it's not mastering the subject, but a divine gift, that makes you a wonderful singer of Homer's praises."
"In this way he hinders the whole state's struggle to achieve virtue and diminishes its reputation, in so far as it depends on him."
"Now if these things were to appear useless for this purpose, wouldn't it follow that they can never appear useful?"
"He hardly seems to me to be answering the question."
"Respect for religion, the ambition to be honored, and a mature passion for spiritual rather than physical beauty. '"
"Therefore, I'm going to speak at length in praise of the unjust life, and in doing"
"And in the case of sex, anger, and all the desires, pleasures, and pains that we say accompany all our actions, poetic imitation has the very same effect on us."
"I thought that what Erasistratus was talking about was no small matter; on the contrary, it's what people consider to be of the very highest importance, namely virtue and wealth."
"We must realize what it grasps and longs to have intercourse with, because it is akin to the divine and immortal and what always is, and we must realize what it would become if it followed this longing with its whole being, and if the resulting effort lifted it out of the sea in which it now dwells, and if the many stones and shells (those which have grown all over it in a wild, earthy, and stony profusion because it feasts at those so called happy feastings on earth) were hammered off it."
"As for these, in what way will one most easily portion them off and show, stripped and alone by himself, that person we are looking for?"
"One cause was the actual fear they felt at the time, but there was another kind too, encouraged by the traditional laws of the state."
"Tell him the truth, Cebes, he said, that I did not do this with the idea of rivaling him or his poems, for I knew that would not be easy, but"
"And he said, 'Well, then I shall write down the charm at your dictation.' '"
"It's a story that Solon, the wisest of the seven sages once vouched for."
"Check first in the case of the hotter and the colder whether you can conceive of a limit, or."
"The most important of all, however lightly you take it at the moment, is to get the right ideas about the gods and so live a good life: otherwise you'll live a bad one."
"Does that seem likely or am I talking nonsense?."
"For example, Agamedes and Trophonius, who built the temple of the Pythian god, after praying for the best thing that might happen to them, fell asleep and never woke up."
"Only one possibility remains."
"Clinias was very pleased and laughed too, which made Ctesippus swell to ten times his normal size."
"(I was so eager to have the wisdom of the pair that I was already trying to copy it.)"
"Isn't it necessary, therefore, to guard in every way against our auxiliaries doing anything like that to the citizens because they are stronger, thereby becoming savage masters instead of kindly allies?"
"It is in fact safest not to refer to it by any of these expressions."
"According to some legends, Theseus and Pirithous abducted Helen and tried to abduct Persephone from Hades."
"In the very way we were talking about."
"Now this man, Callicles, quite to the contrary of your view, shows that of the people in Hades meaning the unseen ai¨des these, the uninitiated ones, would be the most miserable."
"so I'll show you the way I want to hear you praising justice and denouncing injustice."
"Though they're no less pleasures than these, would you strip them of this word, and deprive them of being fine?' '"
"Now one who disciplines correctly disciplines justly?"
"Meaning that he is getting empty?"
"By the same argument, if someone had clothes or blankets or other things worth yet more than our Sicilian fellow's property, he would be wealthier.'"
"Then he will not have this against us, at any rate, that we turned the criticism of his philosophy into sport with boys."
"He knew of my feelings towards Dion and of Dion's desire to have me embark and go to Syracuse; so he wrote me a very lengthy letter, evidently composed with these facts in view."
"While as a matter of fact"
"You're a regular crowd pleaser."
"And I'll try to show that nothing could be more beneficial to the city and its guardians than those arrangements."
"Well just what is it they love to hear about from you, and applaud?"
"Hence they strictly prohibited killing and meat eating."
"No, I wouldn't, Socrates."
"Should we believe all this, Hippias?"
"According to this prevailing interpretation the Visitor envisages, more simply, two alternating eras, one of west toeast rotation (under god's control) and one of the east to west rotation we are familiar with:"
"What instrument is that?"
"this long style of speechmaking like the one Polus began with?"
"So Alcibiades sat down between Socrates and Agathon and, as soon as he did so, he put his arms around Agathon, kissed him, and placed the ribbons on his head."
"For example, isn't the healthiest and strongest body least changed by food, drink, and labor, or the healthiest and strongest plant by sun, wind, and the like?"
"<U+03BB>a<U+03B6><U+03BF><U+03BD>e<U+03B9> (alazoneia), pretentiousness:"
"He said, then, that one day he ran into Socrates, who had just bathed and put on his fancy sandals both very unusual events."
"And it occurred to me that Cydi was the wisest love poet when he gave someone advice on the subject of beautiful boys and said that 'the fawn should beware lest, while taking a look at the lion, he should provide part of the lion's dinner,' because I felt as if I had been snapped up by such a creature."
"So while it reared living things in itself in company with the steersman, it created only slight evils, and great goods; but in separation from him, during all the time closest to the moment of his letting go, it manages everything very well, but as time moves on and forgetfulness increases in it, the condition of its original disharmony also takes greater control of it, and, as this time ends, comes to full flower."
"Then don't you think that a real astronomer will feel the same when he looks at the motions of the stars?"
"I don't suppose you're taking all comers from the Greeks in general though in fact I notice that some settlers from Argos and Aegina and other parts of Greece have come to settle in your country."
"Anything that it did or experienced it was designed to do or experience within itself and by itself."
"A man may injure the farmer or householder next door on higher ground by blocking the flow of rainwater; on the other hand he may discharge it so carelessly as to damage the man below."
"But you had better watch out in case"
"Now when the Father who had begotten the universe observed it set in motion and alive, a thing that had come to be as a shrine for the everlasting gods, he was well pleased, and in his delight he thought of making it more like its model still."
"The Asclepius you're talking about was quite a statesman."
"but now I wish to give you an Charmides explanation of this definition, unless of course you already agree that temperance is to know oneself.' '"
"Or if each of us were unjust, wouldn't both of us?"
"Our boys and girls should imitate her example wholeheartedly, and prize the gift which the goddess has made them, because it increases their fighting skill and embellishes their festivals."
"And when for one of the signs there is also a present perception but there is not for the other, and you try to fit to the present perception the sign belonging to the absent perception, in all such cases thought is in error."
"In the whole of this region they constructed something like a trough for the body's nourishment."
"It seems we clearly have the time."
"I very definitely do."
"He assented, although very grudgingly, and I continued: 'Wouldn't that make wisdom and temperance one thing?"
"Justice is also useful in peacetime, then?"
"Then, on those subjects, would you explain Homer's verse better and more beautifully than Hesiod's?"
"So that I won't make a long style speech, I'm willing to put it to you the way the geometers do for"
"else some of you know and others do not know."
"It remains, I said, to consider the tyrannical man himself, how he evolves from a democrat, what he is like when he has come into being, and whether he is wretched or blessedly happy."
"There were sites of prestigious oracles of Apollo at Delphi, Zeus at Dodona in northwest Greece, and the Egyptian god Ammon at the oasis of Siwa in the Libyan desert."
"Look, I am not forcing anyone to learn how to make speeches without knowing the truth; on the contrary, my advice, for what it is worth, is to take me up only after mastering the truth."
"So how can we ensure that both these requirements are met?"
"No, that's impossible."
"You ask if we need to?"
"Military service is a subject on which we need to give a great deal of advice and have a large number of regulations."
"And this we said was impossible; in fact, it was just this consideration which led us to exclude the possibility of false judgment, because, if admitted, it would mean that the same man must, at one and the same time, both know and not know the same objects."
"Quite reasonably so."
"So they are cowards because of that ignorance?'"
"Archippus and Philonides and their companions have come to me with the letter you gave them and have brought me news of you."
"And I believe that you aren't joking now, Thrasymachus, but are saying what you believe to be the truth."
"But even so I've continued after all that to speak of it as one, since I say that which is not."
"Well, then, do you say that ignorance is to have a false belief and to be deceived about matters of importance?'"
"disregard for the law."
"philosophy: desire for the knowledge of what always exists; the state which contemplates the truth,."
"I should never pray to the gods to come across such a thing; and if I do, I must not disturb it nor tell the diviners, as they are called, who (I shall find) can always invent some reason for advising one to remove something deposited in the ground."
"I understand voluntary discarding but not involuntary."
"We've saved ourselves a longer search."
"The honor they gave to Achilles is another matter."
"You surely know the kind of man he was, how impulsive in any course of action."
"So Zeus brought about this relocation of genitals, and in doing"
"Well, we want to hear that discussion,' I replied. '"
"the official that has the hardest job of all the Director of Children."
"What would he say it was this time?"
"But wouldn't you do a finer job with a pruning knife designed for the purpose than with anything else?"
"Then we must also remember that each one of us in whom each part is doing its own work will himself be just and do his own."
"Or don't you think that to believe the things that are is to possess the truth?"
"In the interests of justice, it seems that we shall have to come to the rescue ourselves."
"It would be ridiculous for anyone to think that spiritedness didn't come to be in cities from such individuals as the Thracians, Scythians, and others who live to the north of us who are held to possess spirit, or that the same isn't true of the love of learning, which is mostly associated with our part of the world, or of the love of money, which one might say is conspicuously displayed by the Phoenicians and Egyptians."
"What has caused my reputation is none other than a certain kind of wisdom."
"several of Socrates' known associates had been prominent malfeasants in Athens' defeat in the Peloponnesian War only a few years earlier and the oligarchic reign of terror that followed; but an amnesty had forbidden suits based on political offenses during that time."
"And then when he had delivered the people of Syracuse and twice restored their city to them, they felt towards Dion exactly as Dionysius had."
"Yes, that and nothing else."
"Believe me, it couldn't matter less to him whether a boy is beautiful."
"Are you able to say?' '"
"So they institute laws and assign praise and blame with themselves and their own advantage in mind."
"It expresses the fact that what is advantageous is nothing other than the movement (phora) of a soul in accord with the movement of things."
"Now when a man gets a true judgment about something without an account, his soul is in a state of truth as regards that thing, but he does not know it; for someone who cannot give and take an account of a thing is ignorant about it."
"The people who were there thought he was talking such nonsense that he couldn't convince any of them that he was speaking the truth."
"Those who practice it are filled with lawlessness."
"We must mount them on horses as early as possible not on spirited or aggressive horses, but on very fast and manageable ones and when they've learned to ride, they must be taken to observe a war."
"That isn't very likely."
"to become measurable. ."
"A teacher in such a community is afraid of his students and flatters them, while the students despise their teachers or tutors."
"Anyone who comes across a case of impiety of word or deed should go to the aid of the law by alerting the authorities."
"The slope of the island was to the south and it was protected from the northerly winds."
"If a man does go on active service, but returns home before the commanders withdraw the troops, he should be prosecuted on a charge of desertion before the same court as is concerned with refusal of service."
"learned from some bronze tablets, which Opis and Hecae¨rge had brought from the Hyperboreans, that the soul, after its release from the body, goes to the Place Unseen, to a dwelling beneath the earth."
"At a. Gorgias mind, contrary to what you really think, and please don't accept what you get from me as though I'm jesting!"
"Still, my friends, the subject of this conversation is not mankind in general but only the merits and faults of legislators."
"But even without those results, the lawgiver will not be at fault for having discussed such a topic."
"But when either the Persians or the Athenians pushed things to extremes (of subjection in the one case and its opposite in the other), it did neither of them any good at all."
"it throws her into extreme emergencies, and visits all sorts of other illnesses upon her until finally the woman's desire and the man's love bring them together, and, like plucking the fruit from a tree, they sow the seed into the ploughed field of her womb, living things too small to be visible and still without form."
"(A foreigner is to be entitled to a share of these fruits too, on the same terms as he may take some of the dessert grapes and figs.)"
"Or would you call medicine the same as navigation?"
"This is what happened to Aristides (son of Lysimachus, grandson of Aristides)."
"Don't they love every kind of wine and find any excuse to enjoy it?"
"Now the reason why I am being so precise with you is this."
"Thus, in turn, as it seems, the one will be equal to, and more and fewer than, itself and the others in number.' '"
"): 'Concerning gods I am unable to know whether they exist or do not exist, or what they are like in Theaetetus you keep on saying whatever is likely to be acceptable to the mob, telling them that it would be a shocking thing if no man were wiser than any cow in a field; but of proof or necessity not a word."
"The boy hears and sees the same kind of things when he goes out: Those in the city who do their own work are called fools and held to be of little account, while those who meddle in other people's affairs are honored and praised."
"Do you know what I'll do?"
"It seems there is no obstacle on your side, and perhaps there should be even less on mine."
"Well then, if virtue isn't teachable, are men naturally good?"
"For I say to you that if this is so, your position will become absurd, when you say that frequently a man, knowing the bad to be bad, nevertheless does that very thing, when he is able not to do it, having been driven and overwhelmed by pleasure; and again when you say that a man knowing the good is not willing to do it, on account of immediate pleasure, having been overcome by it."
"Suppose a man places great value on something, say, a father who values his son more highly than all his other possessions."
"But there are other kinds of observers who should be dispatched, provided the Guardians of the give permission."
"No, it's the same.' '"
"Come, then, since you have beautifully and magnificently expounded his qualities in other ways, tell me this, too, about Love."
"and I'll say it to you now with all frankness that the man who'll live correctly ought to allow his own appetites to get as large as possible and not restrain them."
"Do not value either your children or your life or anything else more than goodness, in order that when you arrive in Hades you may have all this as your defense before the rulers there."
"Well, I mean everything to include you and me and also the other animals and plants. ."
"It is no doubt permeated by the physical, which constant intercourse and association with the body, as well as considerable practice, has caused to become ingrained in it?"
"What do you mean, clothes?"
"Things that are fine are accepted as fine everywhere, it appears, and things that are shameful as shameful, and not the shameful as fine or the fine as shameful."
"That's because you're a rhapsode, of course, and not a charioteer."
"So we must, it appears, inquire into the qualities of something the nature of which we do not yet know."
"And because he observed that the tongue glides most of all in pronouncing 'l', he uses it to produce a resemblance in 'olisthanein' ('glide') itself, and in such names as 'leion' ('smooth'), 'liparon' ('sleek'), 'kollo¯des' ('viscous'), and the like."
"Can we suppose then, Protagoras, that they would make any other answer than that bad things are bad not because they bring about immediate pleasure, but rather because of what happens later, disease and things like that?' '"
"Yes; those are the pains of labor, dear Theaetetus."
"Yet they are more persuasive than all the tragedians put together who are the people"
"Since you value gratification, would you like to gratify me on a small matter?"
"One day I heard someone reading, as he said, from a book of Anaxagoras, and saying that it is Mind that directs and is the cause of everything."
"I simply mean that to be false to one's soul about the things that are, to be ignorant and to have and hold falsehood there, is what everyone would least of all accept, for everyone hates a falsehood in that place most of all."
"Are you the best in Greece?"
"Or is it, above all, the fact that every child, woman, slave, freeman, craftsman, ruler, and ruled each does his own work and doesn't meddle with what is other people's?"
"Well, Socrates, one can't say that it is judgment in general, because there is also false judgment but true judgment"
"I want to say this, namely, that if anything is being changed Euthyphro or is being affected in any way, it is not being changed because it is something changed, but rather it is something changed because it is being changed; nor is it being affected because it is something affected, but it is something affected because it is being affected."
"That is the sort of explanation, gentlemen, that I should have liked you to give, and still want now an explanation of how all these conditions are met in the laws attributed to Zeus and the Pythian Apollo, which Minos and Lycurgus laid down."
"Yet you see in it people who are masters and free."
"Only she was willing to die in place of her husband, although his father and mother were still alive."
"I suppose so, for these things certainly aren't equally valuable or equally beneficial either."
"This is what men would praise them for, isn't it?"
"You disgust me, Socrates."
"Do we not call the losing of knowledge forgetting?"
"particular sections of the community, their authors are not citizens but party men; and people who say those laws have a claim to be obeyed are wasting their breath."
"The soul of the true philosopher thinks that this deliverance must not be opposed and so keeps away from pleasures and desires and pains as far as he can; he reflects that violent pleasure or pain or passion does not cause merely such evils as one might expect, such as one suffers when one has been sick or extravagant through desire, but the greatest and most extreme evil, though one does not reflect on this."
"We prefaced that discussion by saying that we were wholly ignorant of the truth, and were merely describing human beliefs about the gods."
"For example, there are many beds and tables."
"Shall I say that if a fine girl is a fine thing, those things will be fine because of that?"
"In fact, the same applies to skills; for someone who doesn't know how to use his own lyre will hardly be able to use his neighbor's lyre, nor will someone who doesn't know how to use the lyre of others be capable of using his own lyre, nor any other instrument or possession whatsoever."
"They don't understand that a true captain must pay attention to the seasons of the year,"
"Furthermore, it won't be the same as another thing or itself; nor, again, could it be different from itself or another thing.'"
"If then they appear more plausible as I have described them, and if it has been made evident that there were sufficient motives for what happened, this account will have properly accomplished its purpose."
"But surely one that has order is an orderly one?"
"('Most weighed upon')"
"What else do you think Simonides meant, Socrates?"
"On these conditions they may stay for twenty years, after which they must depart to whatever destination they like."
"So fire, as the cold approaches, will either go away or be destroyed"
"Now if he were obliged to speak well of the Athenians among the Peloponnesians or the Peloponnesians among the Athenians, only a good orator could be persuasive and do himself credit; but when you're performing before the very people you're praising, being thought to speak well is no great feat."
"Like Simmias, I too need an image, for I think this argument is much as if one said at the death of an old weaver that the man had not perished but was safe and sound somewhere, and offered as proof the fact that the Phaedo cloak the old man had woven himself and was wearing was still sound and had not perished."
"There is a true doctrine that confutes anyone who has presumed to write anything whatever on such subjects, a doctrine that I have often before expounded, but it seems that it must now be said again."
"Moreover,' he said, 'if both make it clear, then surely each of them makes it clear."
"Therefore neither is it in such a way as to be one, because it would then, by being and partaking of being, be."
"Shall we let it go, or what?'"
"Can you divine what the attitude of someone like that would be to the flatterers, on the one hand, and to his supposed parents, on the other, before he knew about his parentage, and what it would be when he found out?"
"Do they improve the young or not?"
"Yes, and also I mean the sea and earth and heaven and gods and everything else."
"The argument amounts to claiming that there is no such thing as false speaking, doesn't it?"
"Not at all,' he said. '"
"Where else would they come from?"
"Then, won't it be reasonable for us to plead in his defense that it is the nature of the real lover of learning to struggle toward what is, not to remain with any of the many things that are believed to be,"
"And so for that it values them all equally without thinking that some of them are more ridiculous than others, as far as their similarity is concerned."
"If it's a matter of money, speak, Thrasymachus, for we'll all contribute for Socrates."
"Now which type of persuasion does oratory produce in law courts and other gatherings concerning things that are just and unjust?"
"But the different is always said in relation to another, isn't it?"
"Those whose association with me the power of the spiritual thing assists, however these are the ones you've noticed, for they make rapid progress right away."
"And do you know what I take as evidence of this?"
"That's what they are."
"Does any man, Meletus, believe in human activities who does not believe in humans?"
"So whatever each person says is the name of something, for him, that is its name?"
"Do we legislate, or don't we?'"
"When I came to Sicily my reputation was high among philosophers, and I came to Syracuse to make you my witness, so that philosophy might gain favor with the multitude."
"He left here to go home just a short time ago, but he lives close by in Melite.'"
"So shall we, then, at this time give free rein to such a diversion and go right on to set out the next likelihoods on these subjects, as follows:"
"So you, Clinias and Megillus, must do what you did before: take the young man's place and answer on his behalf."
"On the contrary, he should argue 'till the cows come home', as the saying is, to back up the old doctrine that the gods exist, and to support the other arguments you ran through just now."
"I might have some success, perhaps, in finding minor cases."
"We did not distinguish a third kind at the time, because we thought that we could make do with the two of them."
"We must keep our eyes simply upon the object of our discussion."
"When reason makes this defense for herself, as well as for memory and right opinion, shall we not admit that she has spoken reasonably and in accord with her own standards?"
"Because by that answer, if I say the fine is gold, apparently I'll be made to see that gold is no finer than wood from a figtree."
"So your visitor might be a greater power following along with you,."
"He nodded again, very reluctantly. '"
"It follows that Love must be a lover of wisdom and, as such, is in between being wise and being ignorant."
"I maintain that the reason for."
"What's this, Chaerephon?"
"Socrates refers to The Thebans (frg. Davies), an epic poem in the style of Homer about the travails of unfortunate King Oedipus of Thebes and his family."
"What about 'lusiteloun' ('profitable')?"
"So I should imagine."
"Do you observe the result, that when you say that a thirsty person drinks, you're saying that a person who's in pain simultaneously feels enjoyment?"
"For if this matter really has two parts to it, then one part of it would be flattery, I suppose, and shameful public harangue, while the other that of getting the souls of the citizens to be as good as possible and of striving valiantly to say what is best, whether the audience will find it more pleasant or more unpleasant is something admirable."
"So we are poets like yourselves, composing in the same genre, and your competitors as artists and actors in the finest drama, which true law alone has the natural powers to 'produce' to perfection (of that we're quite confident)."
"Oh no, not at all, although it is a part of the same practice."
"So fire and generally everything that has becoming it is safest to call 'what is altogether such.'"
", you'll know as soon as you've answered, for I think that you will speak well."
"At the end of book Clinias reveals that he is one of ten commissioners entrusted with establishing the laws for a new city being founded in Crete, and the conversation continues, with the Athenian now offering his advice on the laws that will be needed to achieve this objective."
"Critias of his mother and the circular island, since it was the largest and the best."
"That's a lot you're asking of me!"
"Yes, I do, because I don't see for what other person it would be."
"No, it amounts to this.' '"
"that part of the earth."
"Then when we've left his own peculiar nature, let's display it, especially to ourselves but also to people to whom this sort of procedure is naturally congenial."
"Here, however, Socrates is again fully in charge."
"It is the ones with soul that have sense."
"Because if I did not make one you will not refute me no matter how wise you are, and you will be 'helpless in dealing with the argument.'"
"What about the style and content of the words themselves?"
"As soon as a child understands what is said to him, the nurse, mother, tutor, and the father himself fight for him to be as good as he possibly can, seizing on every action and word to teach him and show him that this is just, that is unjust, this is noble, that is ugly, this is pious, that is impious, he should do this, he should not do that."
"But take note that pleasu is thereby assigned to the boundless."
", if what you said just now is true, that there is one science which is not of anything except itself and the other sciences and that this same science is also a science of the absence of science?' '"
"And good conduct is admirable."
"As well you may, Megillus, and we must do as he suggests."
"At what point would he be right to stop?"
"But let us take it for granted that whatever Greeks receive from foreigners they improve in the end a point that we must suppose holds for the present subject in particular."
"For this is the single and complete task of kingly weaving together, never to allow moderate dispositions to stand away from the courageous."
"Is this what you're referring to?"
"Now, did we not say before, about the pleasures and pains that belong to the soul alone, that they might precede those that go through the body?"
"But about the other poets I do not."
"It isn't difficult to show that it is different."
"Knowledge can only be lodged in a mind, and its essential feature there is an endless capacity to express, interpret, and reinterpret itself suitably, in response to every challenge something a written text once let go by its author"
"For when flesh that is wasting away passes its waste back into the veins, the veins will contain not only air but also an excess of blood of great variety."
"And there is something which you call sight?"
"Obviously, the answer to your question is the sun."
"Our task is to say how he fails and writes artlessly."
"As I said in the beginning, it is of great importance to us that this young man should become wise and good."
"I think he is doing himself much greater harm doing what he is doing now, attempting to have a man executed unjustly."
"for you know very well"
"Protagoras 'And likewise concerning the actual state of being in pain?"
"In general, let us take it that sound is the percussion of air by way of the ears upon the brain and the blood and transmitted to the soul, and that hearing is the motion caused by the percussion that begins in the head and ends in the place where the liver is situated."
"And if they are if injustice is the worst thing there is for the person committing it"
"Be sure that if you kill the sort of man I say I am, you will not harm me more than yourselves."
"I happen to have no mean teacher of oratory."
"We have to question that."
"Good idea, Pausanias."
"You praise a snub nosed one as cute, a hook nosed one you say is regal, one in between is well proportioned, dark ones look manly, and pale ones are children of the gods."
"And again: if there are three and they are two times, and if there are two and they are three times, must there not be two times three and three times two?'"
"Nor because of the knowledge of how to raise a harvest from the earth, for it's called skilled in farming because of that."
"When the Spartans were criticizing or praising the Athenians, I used to hear the little children say, 'Megillus, your state has done the dirty on us,' or, 'it has done us proud.'"
"; we, that it is knowledge?"
"Nor indeed any wish, I think, that wishes for no good but only for itself and the other wishes.' '"
"It's in this loose way that you must also take the answer I gave earlier."
"But Socrates argues that this cannot be right if you are in a position to deliberate about something, you must already understand that subject, and if you understand it, you won't try to find it out; unlike inquiry, which presupposes ignorance, meaningful deliberation presupposes knowledge."
"Well, if I'm to tell you about it too"
"Then let's take up speech and belief, as we said just now."
"the authority to supervise children, men and girls as they enjoy themselves in choruses by dancing and every other type of cultural activity."
"Let's examine the belief mimic the way people examine iron, to see whether it's sound or has a crack in it."
"In these circumstances he would never have the courage of his convictions; he would never devote his life to promoting the welfare of the community as his first concern, making his private interests take second place to the public good."
"Then please do that, sir, and you'll be doing us all a favor, just as Socrates said."
"Then those who have been forced, contrary to what has been written down and to ancestral custom, to do different things that are more just, better and finer than the things they did before tell me, if people in this kind of situation for their part censure this kind of use of force, isn't it true that, if their censure isn't to be the most laughable of all, they must."
"First, if it is another sort than knowledge, is it teachable or not, or, as we were just saying, recollectable?"
"Not really, Socrates."
"Faced with these and similar cases, what should our policy be on the ownership of slaves?"
"This opinion of ours is the exact opposite of what most people believe that because they do the same things uniformly they do not possess soul."
"I won't reply that when he's done so he won't know how to use them."
"Would we consider a person to be more prosperous and better if his physical requirements and his requirements for day to day living were extremely numerous, or if they were as few and simple as possible?"
": Surely you'd hear a democratic city say that this is the finest thing it has, so that as a result it is the only city worth living in for someone who is by nature free."
"You don't think that he's on a level with the advocate, do you?"
"Let it be put like that; in any case it's sufficiently clear."
"So, he said, if we are in need of that art which will itself know how to use what it acquires through making or capturing, and if it is an art of this sort which will make us happy, then, he said, we must look for some other art besides that of generalship."
"So, feeling enjoyment isn't the same as doing well, and being in pain isn't the same as doing badly, and the result is"
"And Adeimantus replied: No one would be able to contradict the things you've said, Socrates, but on each occasion that you say them, your hearers are affected in some such way as this."
"I was thinking that Critias had conducted this conversation so effectively that if it weren't for the embarrassment"
"In this way, then, I venture to advise you, as Dion and I used to advise Dionysius, first of all to make his daily life such as to give him the greatest possible mastery over himself and win him loyal friends and followers."
"<U+03BA><U+03BF><U+03C5> s<U+03B9><U+03BF><U+03BD> (hekousion), voluntary"
"And a name and an account belong to it, and it is named and spoken of."
"Would you then welcome what's worse and what's more shameful over what is less so?"
"On top of all this, they send their children to an athletic trainer so that they may have sound bodies in the service of their now fit minds and will not be forced to cowardice in war or other activities through physical deficiencies. '"
"Or how else are we to proceed?"
"Very true, and I always believed this.' '"
"Prior to the coming to be of time, the universe had already been made to resemble in various respects the model in whose likeness the god was making it, but the resemblance still fell short in that it didn't yet contain all the living things that were to have come to be within it."
": When something, anything at all, is like something else, how can it benefit or."
"Anyone with aspirations to greatness must admire not himself and his own possessions, but acts of justice, not only when they are his own, but especially when they happen to be done by someone else."
"Nothing is more suitable, gentlemen, than for such a man to be fed in the Prytaneum, much more suitable for him than for any one of you who has won a victory at Olympia with a pair or a team of horses."
"I have nothing to say against you on that point, Socrates."
"So that, in the first place, you were wrong to believe that we should care for the opinion of the many about what is just, beautiful, good, and their opposites. '"
"my possessions is both worse and more shameful for the one who does these unjust acts than it is for me, the one who suffers them."
"I hear from Dion that you are one of his most trusted followers and have been so from the beginning, manifesting the most philosophical of the philosophical virtues; for to be steadfast, loyal, and dependable this, I say, is true philosophy; whereas all other learning, and all cleverness directed to any other end than this, I call"
"Far from it, gentlemen."
"Yes, if you think we should anyhow."
"Nor would, on the other hand, pain be all that is bad, Philebus!"
"Yes, it's intermediate."
"But have you ever heard anyone, young or old, say that Cleophantus, the son of Themistocles, was a good and wise man at the same pursuits as his father?"
"Archedem tells me you think that not only I but my friends also should keep quiet about you and refrain from saying or doing anything to your discredit, Dion alone excepted."
"Given your claim that other things partake of forms, won't you necessarily think either that each thing is composed of thoughts and all things think, or that, although they are thoughts, they are unthinking?' '"
"Second, there are the various oils, which are smooth and divide the ray of sight and for that reason glisten, appearing bright and shiny to the eye: these include resin, castor oil, olive oil and others that share their properties."
"So soul, by virtue of its own motions, stirs into movement everything in the heavens and on earth and in the sea."
"Which do you say is better, one that sings out of tune voluntarily, or involuntarily?"
"But we should have due respect for the luck that has saved him from total ruin, and for his guardian angel too, who in pity for the attacker and the wounded man has stopped the injury of the latter from proving fatal, and prevented the disastrous ill luck of the former from bringing a curse down upon his head."
"I mean deliberate and wholly wicked murders of relatives, whether the murderer commits the crime in person or merely plots it."
"said to be 'self directing'."
"I found the planting, or procreation whatever you're supposed to call it of this son of mine the easiest thing in the world."
"A right and a left nostril?"
"Yet it's a strange drink to give someone in that condition."
"For it isn't profitable for them to have many rivals or to live among many similar professionals."
"how would you answer him?'"
"We shall identify them and show that virtually everyone with an ambition for a reputation of having developed into as good a person as possible avoids them in order to acquire wisdom and practice it."
"To begin with, they corrupt the blood itself, and then also they do not supply the body any further with nourishment."
"Of course, I was deeply humiliated, but also I couldn't help admiring his natural character, his moderation, his fortitude here was a man whose strength and wisdom went beyond my wildest dreams!"
"But now, if there is anything else missing in our mixture, it is up to you and Philebus to say so."
"Then a philosopher is far superior to a profit lover in his experience of both their pleasures."
"Now consider a doctor who can't recognize the state of the body we've just called 'health', or a general who doesn't know what's meant by 'victory' and the other terms we reviewed."
"Well then, sir, if that's the case, what are we to do?"
"Well then, will they say that the whole is different from the one being, or the same as it?"
"That is indeed the question here."
"He's like these creatures in all sorts of other ways; his powers are really extraordinary."
"We and our fellows citizens, all brothers sprung from one mother, do not think it right to be each other's slaves or masters."
"In one way it was lesser, in another it was very high minded, and much greater and more extensive than in the other case."
"We have another example in the Athenians, who took over the protection of a number of Hellenic cities threatened by barbarians."
"And an account was to be a matter of expounding your differentness?"
"Now when the sort of matters about which you are giving advice are unclear to you, and when the voters and the advisers are uninformed, it stands to reason, as you yourselves will agree, that men often lose confidence and change their minds about whatever they took advice on and voted about."
"there were these three sorts of constitution we were talking about at the beginning of the discussion with which we have now been deluged."
"Well then, at what point shall we start?"
"And in many regions of the island they exploited that metal which is now only a name to us, but which was then more than a name oreichalkos."
"Let us recapitulate and formulate our account of these transformations as follows:"
"Certainly, multitudes.' '"
"Why, though, don't you just consider whether what he says is right or wrong?"
"It's that I think you're now saying things that aren't very consistent or compatible with what you were first saying about oratory."
"No young man who is struck by an old man should ever make a fuss, but put up with his bad temper, and so establish a claim to similar respect when he himself grows old."
"Now is this the sort of organization we want to see, or some other?"
"Or what shall we say?"
"Now here's something I'm determined to mention, ludicrous though it is; it'll never happen, and Heaven help us if it did."
"There is no passive till it meets the active, no active except in conjunction with the passive; and what, in conjunction with one thing, is active, reveals itself as passive when it falls in with something else."
"The Scrutineer's tomb shall be an oblong crypt built of choi stone of the most indestructible kind obtainable; in this, on benches of stone set side by."
"Man is one of three things."
"Misology and misanthropy arise in the same way."
"Let us assume with Protagoras that your judgment is true for you."
"And wasn't it the soul that had desires, desires for conditions opposite to the actual ones of the body, while it was the body that undergoes the pain or the pleasure of some affection?"
"They accept that, since they don't have anything better to say right now."
"Now then, Clinias, I'll try to explain the next point, if I can."
"With this grand purpose in view he has worked out what sort of position, in what regions, should be assigned to a soul to match its changes of character; but he left it to the individual's acts of will to determine the direction of these changes."
"If so, he would have to conclude that to answer, 'infinitely many,'"
"He considers all these possessions beneath contempt, and that's exactly how he considers all of us as well."
"But still he's acquired more; or isn't double more than half?"
"And it is the gardeners who have the knowledge?"
"That calls for a very long discussion indeed."
"First prize, Socrates!"
"Following behind and trying to listen to what was being said were a group of what seemed to be mostly foreigners, men whom Protagoras collects from the various cities he travels through."
"Yes, Socrates, I think that is the meaning of the passage."
"For once you have spoken in praise of the lover, I will most definitely make Lysias write a speech on the same topic."
"To tell you the truth, Polus, I don't think it's a craft at all."
"But in book he renews the inquiry, now agreeing to cease examining and refuting the opinions of others, and to present his own account."
"And you're quite a fluteplayer, aren't you?"
"But I am quite certain of this: no animal that enjoys the use of reason in its maturity is ever born with that faculty, or at any rate with it fully developed."
"But of these themes, pride and place must go to the condition of Athens before this war."
"This is the truth of the matter, men of Athens: wherever a man has taken a position that he believes to be best, or has been placed by his commander, there he must I think remain and face danger, without a thought for death or anything else, rather than disgrace."
"A considerable number indeed."
"So the others aren't themselves like and unlike the one, and likeness and unlikeness aren't in them."
"What must we suppose it to do and to be?"
"He should not be attached to life but should commit these concerns to the god and believe the women who say that not one single person can escape fate."
"Well, I think I understand him, and the man seems to me to be saying that courage is some kind of wisdom."
"You can still find it in many parts of the world today, both among Greeks and non Greeks."
"What mistake is that?"
"And the effects he has on others are not forced, for every service we give to love we give willingly."
"You mean the worthy Theodorus?"
"For instance, the man who intends to be a good farmer must play at farming, and the man who is to be a good builder must spend his playtime building toy houses; and in each case the teacher must provide miniature tools that copy the real thing."
"How else do you think he'd be willing to carry out both the requisite bodily labors and also complete so much study and practice?"
"Plato,' he said, 'you were a witness yesterday to the promise Dionysius made to you and me about Heraclides?' '"
"has to be a whole of that quantity, whatever it may be."
"Could it be this, that the Spartans educate their own children better than you would?"
"And might he not afterwards, as an answer to his own question, say to himself, 'It is a man,' and in so speaking, would get it right?"
"To sacrifice is to make a gift to the gods, whereas to pray is to beg from the gods?"
"Then after you've investigated them, if you happen to discover the truth, you can share it with me."
"Possibly, Socrates, if you do not annoy anyone, but if you do, many disgraceful things will be said about you. '"
"But now he springs to life when he gets his way"
"Thus the one would touch itself and the others.' '"
"Then these gods, he said, are also living beings?"
"The homogeneous nature of the heavens on all sides and the earth's own equipoise are sufficient to hold it, for an object balanced in the middle of something homogeneous will have no tendency to incline more in any direction than any other but will remain unmoved."
"So far as we can, we must distinguish the various categories, see how many there are, and say what penalties will be appropriate for each."
"I would not myself want to be in distress and awake so long."
"Also there are people who put everything together at one time and divide them at another."
"Come now, should one do harm to anyone or not, Crito?"
"In this way, indeed, things other than the one, taken both as wholes and part by part, both are unlimited and partake of a limit.' '"
"Then what did he do wrong if he wasn't considerate to you when you behaved badly?' '"
"In some ways I think we are, but certainly not in others."
"Then if the proper procedure is to take such elements and complexes as we ourselves have experience of, and make an inference from them to the rest, we shall say that the elements are much more clearly known, and the knowledge of them is more decisive for the mastery of any branch of study than knowledge of the complex."
"Wouldn't it be: 'in what's pertinent to farming'?"
"Do you call one person musical and another nonmusical?"
"We'll ask Homer and the other poets not to be angry if we delete these passages and all similar ones."
"See, there you go again, Alcibiades, that's not well said!"
"And so now we may say that our account of the universe has reached its conclusion."
"With health there come beauty and strength, and again in our soul there is a host of other excellent qualities."
"Nestor and Odysseus are Homeric heroes known for their speaking ability."
"The twelve sections should be made equal in the sense that a section should be smaller if the soil is good, bigger if it is poor."
"At any rate the next and necessary step in this amalgamation is to choose some representatives to review the rules of all the families, and to propose openly to the leaders and heads of the people the 'kings', so to speak the adoption of those rules that particularly recommend themselves for common use."
"And the proper basis is to put spiritual goods at the top of the list and hold them provided the soul exercises self control in the highest esteem; bodily goods and advantages should come second, and third those said to be provided by property and wealth."
"Their character becomes clear when one strains to draw one's breath through something that obstructs one's breathing."
"Accepting a conjectural transposition of orthe¯ from to ."
"For there are times when he preserves entire cities."
"That is why we should praise the noblest life not only because it enjoys a fine and glorious reputation, but because (provided one is prepared to try it out instead of recoiling from it as a youth)"
"To give a complete one would obviously be a lengthy business; but tell me just this"
"So, if someone were to say that the work of a carpenter or any other craftsman is completely that which is, wouldn't he risk saying what isn't true?"
"honor due to gods; knowledge of the honor due to gods."
"You may assume we agree."
"They will say that everyone ought to claim to be just, whether they are or not, and that it is madness not to pretend to justice, since one must have some trace of it or not be human. '"
"When they undertake to make laws, therefore, they make some correctly, others incorrectly?"
"On the translation in the text there will be assistant guards; on this alternative translation,."
"He then bound them together and thus he constructed the visible and tangible universe."
"We must also remember those who died at each other's hands in that war and try to reconcile them in ceremonies such as today's by what means we have prayers and sacrifices praying to the gods below who have power over them, since we ourselves are reconciled as well."
"The other kind was going to be appearance making, if falsity appeared to be truly falsity and by nature one of those that are."
"Or take olive oil, which is extremely bad for all plants and is the worst enemy of the hair of all animals except humans, for whose hair it is beneficial, as it is for the rest of their bodies."
"In fact, it occurs everywhere in the universe."
"it's high quality that we should value, I think, not extreme brevity or length."
"Likely enough, this is why he organized the common meals, too: he observed that when men are on military service they are all obliged by the pressure of events, for their own protection, to eat together throughout the campaign."
"It is long since time for me to keep that appointment I mentioned."
"I have never observed such a thing,' he said. '"
"'All right, now, I'm going to wax prophetic and say that what is neither good nor bad is a friend of the beautiful and the good."
"Even that utensil is fine if finely made."
"If anyone prescribed a lengthy regimen to him, telling him that he should rest with his head bandaged and so on, he'd soon reply that he had no leisure to be ill and that life is no use to him if he has to neglect his work and always be concerned with his illness."
"What you say is completely true."
"If it is equal, it will be of the same measures as that to which it is equal.' '"
"Now you and your enemies have been ruled almost continuously from the beginning of the war by a single family, a family that your ancestors put in power at a time when they were in the direst peril and there was imminent danger that all of Hellenic Sicily would be overrun by the Carthaginians and become barbarian territory."
"Are we to affirm or deny this, Polus?"
"But our present discussion, on the other hand, shows that the power to learn is present in everyone's soul and that the instrument with which each learns is like an eye that cannot be turned around from darkness to light without turning the whole body."
"knowledge, good will, and frankness."
": it must come to be different, and nothing else.' '"
"<U+03B3><U+03C7><U+03B9> <U+03BD><U+03BF><U+03B9>a (anchinoia)"
"It's certainly a harmonious one."
"Well then, how am I to make my own arguments consistent?"
"Then I suppose that it's most of all under this constitution that one finds people of all varieties."
"'Of course you get a share!'"
"When he did this, he became invisible to those sitting near him, and they went on talking as if he had gone."
"And wouldn't it follow that each particular knowledge that belongs to us is in turn knowledge of some particular thing in our world?' '"
"It is not at all because they are false that we regard pleasures or pains as bad, but because there is some other grave and wide ranging kind of badness involved."
"It is by discussing the individual practice itself that we should try to convince ourselves of its qualities: for the moment, we ought to leave defeats and victories out of account, and simply say that suchand such a practice is good and such and such is bad."
"In fact, the constitution of such beings goes through an ordered series of stages throughout their life."
"Then if we suppose that these things are useful for taking care of the body's needs, mustn't we also require them for this purpose?'"
"This: that the human race has been repeatedly annihilated by floods and plagues and many other causes, so that only a small fraction of it survived."
"Isn't it 'head of the household', and 'master of slaves'?' '"
"Of the remaining three stars, one is particularly slow, and some call it by the name 'Cronus' Saturn."
"But because of his need to thrust out the wings, the gods call him 'Shove.'"
"And he'll answer: 'The various sayings suggest that there is no advantage in my being just if I'm not also thought just, while the troubles and penalties of being just are apparent."
"they must refuse to accept what is false, hate it, and have a love for the truth."
"And what's the matter with it?"
"But if this is not, and if what we were compelled to agree on in our subsequent discussion is the true kind instead that a man should satisfy."
"It's none of your business to appraise them, Callicles."
"And if 'ordinary' fear had not overtaken the cowards on that occasion, they would never have combined to defend themselves or protected temples, tombs, fatherland, and friends and relatives as well, in the way they did."
"In pain, in fear, in desire, or speech, Love is our best guide and guard; he is our comrade and our savior."
"However, another argument is that such practices are incompatible with what in our view should be the constant aim of the legislator that is, we're always asking 'which of our regulations encourages virtue, and which does not?'"
"I'm not talking about this now, but about what he said later."
"The wise, said Clinias."
"that says that good things deserve repeating 'twice or even thrice'."
"Our makers fitted the mouth out with teeth, a tongue and lips in their current arrangement, to accommodate both what is necessary and what is best: they designed the mouth as the entry passage for what is necessary, and as the exit for what is best: for all that comes in and provides nourishment for the body is necessary, while that stream of speech that flows out through the mouth, that instrument of intelligence, is the fairest and best of all streams."
"Give it to her, then, if you think it fitting."
"Think about the question I'm actually asking you."
"That body should sate itself with body he'll think outrageous; his reverence and respect for self control, courage, high principles and good judgment will make him want to live a life of purity, chaste lover with chaste beloved."
"I resign myself; take me with you where you like."
"If someone will admit the existence of the greater and everything of the sort in relation to nothing other than the less, it will never be in relation to what is in due measure you agree?"
"Apparently it will make no difference to you to be ignorant of those things which a man of any pretensions ought to know, so long as you include me in your ignorance."
"The very hollows of the earth, full of water and air, gleaming among the variety of other colors, present a color of their own so that the whole is seen as a continuum of variegated colors."
"And we say that their names are by no means fixed; there is no reason why what we call 'circles' might not be called 'straight lines,' and the straight lines 'circles,' and their natures will be none the less fixed despite this exchange of names."
"Far from it,' she said."
"I very much approve of your introduction, sir, and I'm even more impressed by the way you've rounded it off so that it leads into the opening of the next theme."
"(We'll look at the opposite city soon."
"Then try to follow my example."
"As it is, a switch of only thirty votes would have acquitted me."
"And aren't things unequal unequal to something unequal?' '"
"No, thinking it is not possible either, he said."
"Now the soul of man longs to understand what sort of things these principles are, and it looks toward the things that are akin to itself, though none of them is adequate; clearly the king and the other principles mentioned are not of that sort."
"Then, you should understand that, as far as we could, we were doing something similar when we selected our soldiers and educated them in music and physical training."
"It's right enough and it rings true, but"
"But nowadays it is contracted and pronounced 'aischron'."
"Suppose that first the doctor said, 'Socrates, Gorgias is telling you a lie."
"For when deeds have been bravely done, it is through an eloquent speech that remembrance and honor accrue to their doers from the hearers."
"In any case, you have two kinds of thing, visible and intelligible."
"And I wanted to include not only those who are courageous in warfare but also those who are brave in dangers at sea, and the ones who show courage in illness and poverty and affairs of state; and"
"If the article is used in a man's town house, the time limit is to be three years; if it is kept in a building in the country, ten years; and if it is used abroad, then there is to be no time limit for recovery at all, however long the claimant may take to find it."
"As you know, we customarily hypothesize a single form in connection with each of the many things to which we apply the same name."
"Clearly, then, at this stage, we must decide whether we are going to try to talk about laws in the right spirit."
"He is likely to be wise, and when he sees my ignorance corrupting his contemporaries, he proceeds to accuse me to the city as to their mother."
"Or has the ship arrived from Delos, at the arrival of which I must die?"
"That, Clinias, as we have often remarked, is something which will probably become clearer of its own accord when we've completely finished expounding our laws."
"Gorgias truer than it."
"When she saw us, she cried out and said the sort of thing that women usually say: 'Socrates, this is the last time your friends will talk to you and you to them.'"
"Unwillingly, it seems."
"But how could someone who didn't know about a subject make a sound objection against someone who knew about it?"
"It is not very difficult to describe it, but extremely difficult to use."
"And whom do you suppose did Hippias (son of Pisistratus) rule over when he ruled this city?"
"Tell me, if the pleasure through sight and the one through hearing are both and each fine"
"Among us Cretans it is Zeus; in Sparta which is where our friend here hails from they say it is Apollo, I believe."
"As I reflected on this subject I was glad to think that I had found in Anaxagoras a teacher about the cause of things after my own heart, and that he would tell me, first, whether the earth is flat or round, and then would explain why it is so of necessity, saying which is better, and that it was better to be so."
"That is indeed what I am seeking, but, Meno, is virtue the same in the case of a child or a slave, namely, for them to be able to rule over a master, and do you think that he who rules is still a slave?"
"(I limit this claim to the duration of our lives."
"That is indeed necessary."
"But in that case, my wonderful friend, there aren't any greedy people at all, according to what you say."
"But I must necessarily become percipient of something when I become percipient; it is impossible to become percipient, yet percipient of nothing."
"So if the others have parts, they would also partake of some one whole.' '"
"Therefore the one, since it is itself always both in itself and in a different thing, must always be both in motion and at rest.' '"
"Shall I hypothesize about the one itself and consider what the consequences must be, if it is one or if it is not one?' '"
"But when, conversely, the fire is expelled from it, then, since the fire does not pass into a void, pressure is exerted upon the surrounding air, which in turn compresses the still mobile liquid mass into the places previously occupied by the fire and mixes it with itself."
"But if neither is right, if it isn't the case that everything always has every attribute simultaneously or that each thing has a being or essence privately for each person, then it is clear that things have some fixed being or essence of their own."
"But someone who, to take the opposite case, believes in the beautiful itself, can see both it and the things that participate in it and doesn't believe that the participants are it or that it itself is the participants is he living in a dream or is he awake?"
"I suppose we should want to mark off this sort of training from others and reserve the title 'education' for it alone."
"So please, will you tell me all about it?"
"Since there is no void into which anything that is moving could enter, and since the air we breathe out does move out, away from us, it clearly follows that this air doesn't move into a void, but pushes the air next to it out of its place."
"If you had to entrust your body to someone Protagoras and risk its becoming healthy or ill, you would consider carefully whether you should entrust it or not, and you would confer with your family and friends for days on end."
"Likewise those who buy from them, unless one happens to be a physician of the soul."
"Powers are a class of the things that are that enable us or anything else for that matter to do whatever we are capable of doing."
"And different also, in so far as he is unlike?"
"Perhaps it would not be a bad moment to go back upon our tracks."
"The result was that even I myself, Crito, was finally compelled, out of sheer disbelief, to ask whether Dionysodorus even knew how to dance, to which he replied that he certainly did."
"There's a further point they will have to appreciate if they are going to allocate these events satisfactorily."
"For this reason the people of that time fashioned the statue of the goddess as armed to reflect that ancient custom an indication that all the female and male creatures that live together in a flock can very well pursue in common, as much as is possible, the special talents that are suited to each species."
"Unmoved by the claims of justice grounded in his private relationships to friends and family, Socrates appeals to the standards of civic justice imbedded in his relations as a citizen to the Athenian people and to the Athenian system of law."
"They distribute the land and houses as private property, enslave and hold as serfs and servants those whom they previously guarded as free friends and providers of upkeep, and occupy themselves with war and with guarding against those whom they've enslaved."
"He was produced by being brought up from youth by a thrifty father who valued only those desires that make money and who despised the unnecessary ones that aim at frivolity and display."
"But how are you going to carry on the discussion at all, Socrates, if you keep off these words?"
"For example, you know, I think, that you don't know how to prepare a fine meal"
"Surely you could do that quite easily, being such a good deliberator yourself?"
"We could not maintain against the man who said this that it is not destroyed, for the uneven is not indestructible."
"And a musical person would love such people most of all, but he wouldn't love anyone who lacked harmony?"
"But no, you figured out a way to find a place next to the most handsome man in the room!'"
"Whether my teacher is to be younger than I am or not yet famous or has any other such peculiarity troubles me not at all."
"And it is from this origin that the resources human beings needed to stay alive came into being."
"You have my permission,' said Phaedrus. '"
"I would be acting badly if I failed to obey my guardian and did not carry out your commands.' '"
"opinion shared between those who govern and those who are governed about how to govern and be governed."
"But in what way, he said, can the different be different just because the different is present with the different?"
"Well, then, Socrates aren't you one of these gentlemen?"
"It is a fine name you've given your son, Demodocus, and godly."
"The Visitor will immediately explain in the first of the two 'parts' of the expertise of measurement; the second emerges gradually at."
"(mantike¯), divination:"
"What you are hearing about, then, Socrates, is the life of those who lived in the time of Cronus; as for this one, which they say is in the time of Zeus, the present one, you are familiar with it from personal experience."
"Then is part of it worthless and part of it fine, or all of it fine?' '"
"Yes, it would partake of a shape.' '"
"They sent him to the Isles of the Blest because he dared to stand by his lover Patroclus and avenge him, even after he had learned from his mother that he would die if he killed Hector, but that if he chose otherwise he'd go home and end his life as an old man."
", good: that which is for its own sake."
"Here we insert see note to above."
"Attributing oude ge kalon dokei einai in to Socrates, and accepting the conjectured reply ou from Alcibiades."
"Earli we described the ray of sight as a body that comes into being with the daylight as an extension of ourselves."
"My question is whether you have in mind"
"Well, if he excludes private life from his legislation, and expects that the citizens will be prepared to be law abiding in their public life as a community, he's making a big mistake."
", virtue would appear to be eminently teachable."
"He will confirm and strengthen the virtuous in the paths of righteousness, and do his best to banish ignorance and incontinence and cowardice and indeed every sort of injustice from the hearts of those criminals whose outlook can be cured."
"So such a man or anyone else who has a desire desires what is not at hand and not present, what he does not have, and what he is not, and that of which he is in need; for such are the objects of desire and love.' '"
"It's harder to understand."
"No one could be more prepared to receive your gifts than I. Yes indeed, Socrates, you won't find us short on enthusiasm, as Timaeus has already told you."
"That is why we have what we call songs, which are really 'charms' for the soul."
"Simmias laughed and said: 'By Zeus, Socrates, you made me laugh, though I was in no laughing mood just now."
"Thus not all of them have the capacity of breaking up and turning into one another, with a large number of small bodies turning into a small number of large ones and vice versa."
"Phaedo to the body, as I said before, hovers around it and the visible world for a long time, struggling and suffering much until it is led away by force and with difficulty by its appointed spirit."
"I'd be wrong not to, I said, and so would you, for it isn't difficult."
"This, of course, is the type of soul that, as we maintain, resides in the top part of our bodies."
"And if it is not of you, it isn't of anything else."
"Or rather isn't it often the case that a poor man, lean and suntanned, stands in battle next to a rich man, reared in the shade and carrying a lot of excess flesh, and sees him panting and at a loss?"
"My good young friend, don't you notice on the basis of the things we said that that which is not even confuses the person who's refuting it in just this way, that whenever someone tries to refute it, he's forced to say mutually contrary things about it?"
"Because it had been so long ago, I didn't remember Solon's story very well."
"Actually, each of them perpetually describes just one fixed orbit, although it is true that to all appearances its path is always changing."
"Well, then, to which of them do number and the one belong?"
"This is just what I was getting at when I said I knew of a way to put into effect this law of ours which permits the sexual act only for its natural purpose, procreation, and forbids not only homosexual relations, in which the human race is deliberately murdered, but also the sowing of seeds on rocks and stone, where it will never take root and mature into a new individual; and we should also have to keep away from any female 'soil' in which we'd be sorry to have the seed develop."
"Would there then be two Cratyluses or Cratylus and an image of Cratylus?"
"Have you just come, or have you been here for some time?"
"Now then, would someone who is tall, want to be tall?"
"What about steersmen who are turned from their course 'by libations and burnt offerings', and wreck both the ship and its crew?"
"And they should dread to hear anyone say:"
"Now as far as I'm concerned, we've proved, not too inadequately, that gods exist and care for mankind."
"Don't you and I and the other things we call 'many' get a share of those two entities?"
"But a bad and ignorant person wants to outdo both his like and his opposite."
"You realize, he said, that when a man dies, the visible part, the body, which exists in the visible world, and which we call the corpse, whose natural lot it would be to dissolve, fall apart and be blown away, does not immediately suffer any of these things but remains for a fair time, in fact, quite a long time if the man dies with his body in a suitable condition and at a favorable season?"
"Those with which one would do so voluntarily."
"After that, up spoke Eryximachus, son of Acumenus: 'Well said, both of you."
"For even if they think they are studying nature, you must realize that all their lives they are merely dealing with this world order, how it came to be, how it is affected, and how it acts?"
"And if what I was saying is true, then they alone, no doubt, are in a position to offer on terms of honor the benefit they provide without charge, as is reasonable."
"As for the other spiritual beings daimones it is beyond our task to know and speak of how they came to be."
"Adult men, when compared to mere infants who are five or ten days old, have an amazing superiority in their ability at virtually all the practical affairs of life, those carried out by means of our sophisticated skills as well as those carried out by means of the body and soul; these things cannot, as I said, even cross the minds of young children."
"If our guardians are going to be genuine guardians of the laws they must have genuine knowledge of their real nature; they must be articulate enough to explain the real difference between good actions and bad, and capable of sticking to the distinction in practice."
"Necessarily,' he said. '"
"For all three are made up of a single type of triangle, so that when once the larger bodies are broken up, the same triangles can go to make up a large number of small bodies, assuming shapes appropriate to them."
"The musician is the one with the expertise to know which ones mix and which ones don't, and the unmusical person is the one who doesn't understand that."
"Then what precautions ought a contemporary legislator to have taken in his code to nip this disease in the bud?"
"Judging truly is at least something free of mistakes, I take it, and everything that results from it is admirable and good."
"For the perceptions we have such names as sight, hearing, smelling, feeling cold and feeling hot; also what are called pleasures and pains, desires and fears; and there are others besides, a great number which have names, an infinite number which have not."
"Why, current events quite suffice to do that, and to prove that many people who behave unjustly are happy."
"It is the source of freedom for humankind itself and at the same time it is for each person the source of rule over others in one's own city."
"I mean the 'fear' they had learned to experience as a result of being subject to an ancient code of laws."
"And because he saw that 'n' is sounded inwardly, he used it in 'endon' ('within') and 'entos' ('inside'), in order to make the letters copy the things."
"Even I myself was so affected by it as to declare that I had never in my life seen such wise men; and I was so absolutely captivated by their wisdom that I began to praise and extol them and said, happy pair, what miraculous endowment you possess to have brought such a thing to perfection in so short a time!"
"Therefore the one, if it is not, would be unable to rotate in that in which it is not.' '"
"You mean that the people, who fathered the tyrant, will have to feed him and his companions."
"This is what I think it is: that one ought either to be a. Cf."
"Then don't you also agree that the harshness the majority exhibit towards philosophy is caused by those outsiders who don't belong and who've burst in like a band of revellers, always abusing one another, indulging their love of quarrels, and arguing about human beings in a way that is wholly inappropriate to philosophy?"
"It's your duty to come to the man's rescue, so"
"Again, the origin of this form of recreation too lies in the fact that every animal has the natural habit of jumping about."
"He'd be gentle to free people and very obedient to rulers, being himself a lover of ruling and a lover of honor."
"It is because you are not barren but pregnant."
"Indeed I do,' the first man replied. '"
"Then what is the point of such reproaches?'"
"Tell me then, by Zeus, what is that excellent aim that the gods achieve, using us as their servants?"
"This too is one of the things that have been told through the ages."
"Rather give serious consideration to the thing itself: if it seems to you negligible, then turn everyone from it, not just your sons."
"Cheer up, Theodotes,'"
"Megillus and Clinias"
"Still, let's not abandon this style of legislation yet."
"That is to say, of things which one has learned, that is, perceived that kind of 'something'?"
"This is the meaning I think you intend"
"So was I wrong just now"
"I certainly don't remember them all any more, but if none of these is a friend, then I have nothing left to say.'"
"That is, in so far as one of them is clarified, either brightly or dimly, the other will be too."
"That won't be difficult since they're the ones for which we have names."
"And what you just said, in particular, must not be dismissed."
"Many a time an army has been defeated and routed in the past, and will be in the future, without any very obvious reason."
"Because you mean me when you say the youngest."
"All such people are liable to false judgment."
"So also do I summon your aid, lest to our dismay"
"besides, they're both a long way off."
"In just this very way, it seems to me, the art of kingship since it is this that itself possesses the capacity belonging to the directing art will not permit the educators and tutors, who function according to law, to do anything in the exercise of their role that will not ultimately result in some disposition which is appropriate to its own mixing role."
"But when the debate involves political excellence, which must proceed entirely from justice and temperance, they accept advice from anyone, and with good reason, for they think that this particular virtue, political or civic virtue, is shared by all, or there wouldn't be any cities."
"It may be, perhaps, that they will to the sort that has to do with commercial matters."
"what causes the preservation of beings; the cause toward which everything tends, from which is derived what should be chosen."
"In both these cases, as I see it at least, pleasure and pain will arise pure and unmixed with each other, so that it will become apparent as far as pleasure is concerned whether its whole class is to be welcomed or whether this should rather be the privilege of one of the other classes which we have already discussed."
"And you have admitted, haven't you, that those who do not know belong to the group of those who do not have something?"
"This measure is neither easy to describe nor simple in execution."
"They wouldn't allow anyone to thwart 'their Beatitudes' in anything, and they forced everybody to rhapsodize about what the children said or did."
"In the conventional way."
"All of the various troubles men endure in these matters are obvious, ignoble, and not worth discussing."
"The works of nature, they say, are grand and primary, and constitute a ready made source for all the minor works constructed and fashioned by art artefacts, as they're generally called."
"Moreover, as for wisdom, I'm sure you can see how much attention our way of life here has devoted to it, right from the beginning."
"Euthydemus Know what?"
"Of course, the first half of the requirement presents no great problem; the difficulty lies in becoming strong enough to be immune to injury and the one and only thing that brings such immunity is complete virtue."
"Do you want us to focus on something trivial and try to use it as a model for the more important issue?"
"Then, as I was about to say, doesn't the insatiable desire for freedom and the neglect of other things change this constitution and put it in need of a dictatorship?"
"If only wisdom were like water, which always flows from a full cup into an empty one when we connect them with a piece of yarn well, then I would consider it the greatest prize to have the chance to lie down next to you."
"He made the movement of the Same revolve toward the right by way of the side, and that of the Different toward the left by way of the diagonal, and he made the revolution of the Same,.e., the uniform, thedominant one in that"
"And must it be treated as dispersed and multiplied or as entirely separated from itself, which would seem most impossible of all?"
"Maybe; but I'm right in saying that we stand in need of self cultivation."
"They were so simple they didn't realize the great value of money."
"He agreed about food as well."
"And foolish behavior is done with folly, just as temperate behavior is done with temperance?' '"
"And as for the part that pits words against words, what else would you call it other than controversy?"
"And if he had already discovered or learned these doctrines and regarded them as fitted for educating a liberal mind, how unless he is a very strange creature indeed could he have so lightly brought ignominy upon their teacher and guardian?"
"In that way they'd be more likely to turn against the barbarians and keep their hands off one another."
"That was certainly so."
"so I'll do as you say."
"Having heard that account, Critias now tells the tale of the conflict between Athens and Atlantis (or rather the introductory part of it"
"Of course, it would make some sense if these dangers and burdens brought any benefit; but in fact it's quite the contrary."
"she has seen who is concerned with anything"
"I can't make out one way or the other with each thing you're saying whether you're saying these things for yourself and revealing your own view, or whether you're questioning me."
"And do you know everything just at the present moment, I asked, or is your knowledge also a permanent thing?"
"Why have you come so early?"
"For now, let's consider this point first."
"Well then, he said, the first thing of which I am convinced is that if the earth is a sphere in the middle of the heavens, it has no need of air or any other force to prevent it from falling."
"The facts are, of course, as follows: each of the three royal families, and each of the three royal states they ruled, exchanged oaths in accordance with mutually binding laws which they had adopted to regulate the exercise of authority and obedience to it."
"We agreed on all this."
"Many of them say in their interpretations of the poet that he represents Athena as Understanding or Thought."
"That too is a feature of the country which will do it no harm."
"If immediately we had said to you 'ignorance,' you might have laughed at us, but if you laugh at us now, you will be laughing at yourselves."
"And at Athens our Virgin Lady, I believe, charmed by the pleasure of performing in a chorus, and disapproving of empty hands in recreation, thought she should perform the dance only when arrayed in full armor."
"Then will he consider death to be a terrible thing?"
"If there are no teachers, there are no learners?"
"And, in this way, he'll direct both the increase and expenditure of his wealth, as far as he can."
"And what a man has once seen, he recalls, I take it, from time to time?"
"Suppose further that he believed that by teaching this he was imparting the knowledge of composing tragedies"
"And within this figure are four squares, each of which is equal to the four foot square?"
"For they will stand in no need of a stimulus for grief; the misfortune that has befallen them will be enough to provide that."
"be in after Agathon's spoken"
"And isn't it generally true that the kinds of filling up that are concerned with the care of the body share less in truth and being than those concerned with the care of the soul?"
"What about the reputed delights of Attic pastries?"
"This whole geometrical number controls better and worse births."
"This arrangement is intended to ensure, first, that we enjoy the favor of the gods and heaven in general, and secondly (as we'd be inclined to stre that we should grow familiar and intimate with each other in every kind of social contact."
"We said, I believe, that, in order to get the finest possible view of these matters, we would need to take a longer road that would make them plain to anyone who took it but that it was possible to give demonstrations of what they are that would be up to the standard of the previous argument."
"Then how will temperance be beneficial when it is the craftsman of no beneficial thing?' '"
"For producing a certain gratification and pleasure."
"I don't believe you'd think so if you heard me speaking on Homer."
"So, being one, is it, as a whole, in many places at the same time?"
"Of the fourth set Elasippus was the first born, Mestor the second."
"This would make their wickedness infinitely worse, and bring the reproach of heaven both on themselves and on the virtuous people who tolerate them, so that, by a sort of rough justice, the whole state would catch the infection of their impiety."
"and decrees, published orally or in writing, are things he never sees or hears."
"Come tell me, does the task of persuading a man in this frame of mind both that virtue can be taught, and that you are the ones from whom he could learn it best, belong to this same art or to some other one?"
"There's nothing more divine for a man to take advice about than the education of himself and his family."
"What about the appointment of attendants for the various officials, the fixing of times at which the various formalities should be completed, voting methods, adjournments, and all the other similar inescapable details of legal procedure, such as putting cases early or late in the calendar, the enforcement of attendance and of replies to interrogation, and suchlike?"
"But whether acting scientifically would make us fare well and be happy, this we have yet to learn, my dear Critias.' '"
"is just exactly this."
"Now there is but one way to care for anything, and that is to provide for it the nourishment and the motions that are proper to it."
"On the contrary, conquest is deemed noble, and failure shameful."
"Well done, I said, most handsome and clever Clinias!"
"The best proof that Simonides did not mean that 'hard' is 'bad' is found in the very next phrase, which says: God alone can have this privilege."
"But, Socrates, how can anyone say the thing he says and not say something that is?"
"So because the one is the same as the others and because it is different, on both grounds and either, it would be both like and unlike the others.' '"
"and you have given me many"
"For many of the men resemble lions and centaurs and other such things, and very many resemble satyrs and those animals that are weak but versatile; and they quickly exchange their shapes and capacity for action for each other's."
"But, as I said, let's leave the gods."
"Are there some persons who speak of things as they are?"
"Those with which one accomplishes bad results voluntarily, or involuntarily?"
"So too if the wax is hard, for then the impressions have no depth; similarly they are indistinct if the wax is soft, because they quickly run together and are blurred."
"In my view, however, the name is most beautifully suited to the power of the god."
"A man who has this skill would suffer no harm at the hands of a single opponent, nor even perhaps at the hands of a larger number, but he would have the advantage in every way."
"It was because of this,"
"Even though he's thirsty?"
"Isn't that what they're trying to find out about the diagonal?"
"it must always, as long as it is, be some one thing; it cannot be nothing.' '"
"You're right to be confused."
"When the natural combination of limit and unlimitedness that forms a live organism, as I explained before, is destroyed, this destruction is pain, while the return towards its own nature, this general restoration, is pleasure."
"Then Critias said to me, 'You see, just lately he's complained of a headache when he gets up in the morning."
"Then what will they be discussing?"
"(we say he is 'possessed,' and that's near enough, for he is held)."
"So they devised something to relieve the pounding: they implanted lungs, a structure that is first of all soft and without blood and that secondly contains pores bored through it like a sponge."
"When a man undertakes a prosecution, he should immediately demand sureties from the accused."
"A true one, surely, and if my questioner was one of those clever and disputatious debaters, I would say to him: 'I have given my answer; if it is wrong, it is your job to refute it.'"
"An epithet for the people of Athens, in Homer, Iliad ii. . '"
"In my view, this name derives from a sort of thought (dianoia)."
"Then let's try to analyze their names as we did the previous ones."
"And acting unjustly comes about because there is injustice."
"And you think it's true that some names are composed out of more primitive ones, while others are primary?"
"It most certainly does."
"Such stories blaspheme the gods and, at the same time, make children more cowardly."
"You must realize that some of the various affections of the body are extinguished within the body before they reach the soul, leaving it unaffected."
"The bitterness with which fathers quarrel with their children and children with their fathers is often excessive."
"Nobody, not even you, Socrates, can deny that you look like them."
"Well, Dropides told the story to my grandfather Critias, and the old man in his turn would tell it to us from memory."
"And it was agreed, I take it, that just things are admirable?"
"So that he'll be persuasive in a gathering about all subjects, not by teaching but by persuading?"
"Now this power that."
"Another example would be if someone thought that he was dividing number into two real classes by cutting off the number ten thousand from all the rest, separating it off as a single class, and in positing a single name for all the rest supposed here too that through getting the name this class too came into existence, a second single one apart from the other."
"Don't you see that it is almost exactly noon, '"
"For our earlier discussion made it clear that the opposite is not friend to the opposite, nor is like friend to like."
"And that's why you will hear the rest of my story; you will understand and forgive both what I did then and what I say now."
"In fact, Socrates shows himself to be much more an ally of Protagoras on the question of the nature of human virtue than at first appears."
"But if the wealth of all the cities came to be gathered in a single one, watch out that it doesn't endanger your nonwealthy city."
"Get it into your head that we shall not leave here until you recite what you claimed to have 'in your breast.'"
"'That's very much what I think too.' '"
"Surely it's absurd for someone to agree that there are two names when he maintains that there's only one thing."
"e<U+03B3>a<U+03BB><U+03BF><U+03C8><U+03C5><U+03C7><U+03B9> (megalopsuchia), magnanimity:"
"Yes, when it's not appropriate anyway."
"And are you not afraid that we will gang up against you with Philebus if you insult us?"
"Then the guardian women must strip for physical training, since they'll wear virtue or excellence instead of clothes."
"If a thing is noble and good, is it also pleasant?' '"
"You must always assert, Socrates, that this is what I say rather than the other way round."
"It looks as if the next question we have to ask is this: is the insight we somehow get into men's natural temperaments the only thing in favor of drinking parties?"
"and they pass on the inspiration to their hearers, who are in a state of divine possession in opening themselves to the poetry."
"Prodicus responded as you did just now: 'It's good for gentlemen, the people who know in what situations they should use their property; but it's bad for those who are wicked and ignorant."
"In the case of a member of the highest property class, the whole funeral should not cost more than five hundred drachmas; three hundred may be spent on a member of the second class, two hundred on a member of the third, and one hundred on a member of the fourth."
"Or will you have the nerve to say that they are happy as long as they have what they need to their hearts' content?"
"How are we supposed to understand that remark?"
"The sphere is not correct."
"Socrates/Glaucon Certainly."
"So the hypothesis lets us call both of them fine, but it doesn't let us call each of them fine."
"What you say is correct."
"For if this has not been agreed, it is certainly not possible for either the statesman or anyone else who possesses knowledge of practical subjects to acquire an undisputed existence."
"And at the present moment, he said, is Clinias wise or not?"
"Do you want to discuss whether this is likely to be true or not?"
"What do you have in mind when you say this?"
"What you called them just now subordinates, and not themselves rulers in cities."
"Its accomplishments and its social arrangements are said to have been the finest of all those under heaven of which we have received report.' '"
"Well then, could you now produce some justification for this view?"
"Perhaps that's because you're also a general by profession, Ion."
"For in these conditions, we surely have false perceptions."
"Or shall we ignore them and get back to our legislation, so that the mere preface doesn't turn out longer than the actual code?"
"You thus show no concern for what their fate may be."
"Then who is the man that corresponds to this constitution?"
"Then we'll consult with Damon as to which metrical feet are suited to slavishness, insolence, madness, and the other vices and which are suited to their opposites."
"So if they were good ones, each of them was obviously making the citizens better than they were before."
"How could being be missing from any of the beings?' '"
"Which saying of theirs do you have in mind?"
"Even if someone thought it was necessary to wage war on people who were treating us justly, he wouldn't admit it."
"It seems as if it did."
"That's what the pilot is good at."
"Yes.' 'When we say 'is not,' the words don't signify anything other than absence of being for whatever we say is not, do they?' '"
"Instead, it always does away with (luei) any attempt to let motion end, making it unceasing and immortal."
"But it's clear now that a number of points were omitted points which everyone ought in fact to hear first."
"It probably applies to poetry as well."
"On the contrary, if there is among the dead any perception of the living, that is how they would most displease us by doing themselves injuries and bearing their sorrows heavily."
"So, if I see fit to have any one of these people you see here put to death right on the spot, to death he'll be put."
"Well then, is there an opposite to living, as sleeping is the opposite of being awake?"
"was Axiochus' young son."
"Not only will I be deprived of a friend, the like of whom I shall never find again, but many people who do not know you or me very well will think that I could have saved you if I were willing to spend money, but that I did not care to do so."
"I suppose they think that if they did it would be something that stands still this being what they are totally at war with, and what they are determined to banish from the universe, if they can."
"Now to deal with how this doctrine should be taught and handed on."
"To your saying that Achilles didn't lie on purpose"
"We hear some people say that poets know all crafts, all human affairs concerned with virtue and vice, and all about the gods as well."
"Well then, may we please notice this point that concerns legislators?"
"Now what is it through which you think all these things about them?"
"Then this is something I do not know, I said."
"such partly unjust people are called temple robbers, kidnappers, housebreakers, robbers, and thieves when they commit these crimes."
"It would seem so, to me at least."
"I swear in all truth that, if you don't make your speech right next to this tree here, I shall never, never again recite another speech for you"
"In any case, listen to my simile, and you'll appreciate all the more how greedy for images I am."
"Therefore, in our city more than in any other, they'll speak in unison the words we mentioned a moment ago."
"Some he made wider and"
"There are no firs or pines worth mentioning, and not much by way of cypress, though you'll find a small quantity of plane and Aleppo pine, which is, of course, the standard material shipwrights must have to construct the interior parts of a boat."
"Very well, that's one reason."
"The distinction between the two kinds must be left to the minister with overall responsibility for the education of the young; an author may put before the public anything the minister approves of, but if it is censored, the author must not perform it to anyone personally nor be found to have trained someone else to do so, whether a free man or a slave."
"Then you must know that not only does he have the reputation of being the most temperate young man of the day, but that he is second to none in everything else appropriate to his age.' '"
"So let's review our earlier discussion."
"And when you're in a state like that, do you think it's any better for you to live than die?'"
"Well now, just consider what criteria a man ought to employ if he is going to be 'right' to give such praise in an individual case."
"A man goes off to some remote point on a road running through the middle of nowhere and sets up his establishment to sell provisions; he receives the weary traveler with welcome lodging peace and quiet for the victim of violent storms, cool refreshment for the sufferer from stifling heat"
"Ajax is a great Homeric hero."
"And he does them because of his knowledge."
"But for my part, I think that the matter would have been better illuminated if we had only it to discuss and not all the other things that remain to be treated in order to discover the difference between the just life and the unjust one."
"Nonetheless, we were compelled by the truth to say that no city, constitution, or individual man will ever become perfect until either some chance event compels those few philosophers who aren't vicious."
"Minos used him as watcher over the law in the town, but Talos in the rest of Crete."
"But Sophroniscus and Chaeredemus were both fathers?"
"It is not hard to tell you, Socrates."
"Do you acknowledge that there is such a thing as folly?'"
"Please tell me, then,' he said."
"Just the same Socrates, on those subjects, anyway, where they say the same things."
"Whereupon, my dear Crito, there was no one there who did not praise to the skies the argument and the two men, laughing and applauding and exulting until they were nearly exhausted."
"What about the case of Hermogenes, which we mentioned earlier?"
"I suppose it's because I understand these things but not those.' '"
"Then by those very gods about whom we are talking, Meletus, make this clearer to me and to these men: I cannot be sure whether you mean that I teach the belief that there are some gods and therefore I myself believe that there are gods and am not altogether an atheist, nor am I guilty of that not, however, the gods in whom the city believes, but others, and that this is the charge against me, that they are others."
"Look here, now: my position is quite clear."
"Some people easily learn whatever they are learning and accurately remember a great number of things, and some can call to mind what is useful for each person what would be fitting if it were to take place and quickly bring it about."
"When it must be deposited for safekeeping, Socrates."
"Megillus and Clinias, this is precisely the sort of point about the gods of the heavens that I am insisting our citizens and young men must study, so as to learn enough about them all to avoid blasphemy, and to use reverent language whenever they sacrifice and offer up their pious prayers."
"My good sir, I too have a household and, in Homer's phrase, I am not born 'from oak or rock' but from men, so that I have a family, indeed three sons, men of Athens, of whom one is an adolescent while two are children."
"Humans should admit as evidence of the intelligence of the stars and this entire movement of theirs, the fact that they always do the same things, because they are doing what was decided an astonishingly long time ago and do not change their decision back and forth, sometimes doing one thing and at others doing something else, wandering and changing their orbits."
"There isn't anything."
"This is irreverent conduct for either of us."
"The mother of the nine Muses and the goddess of memory."
"'We shall have to use force,' said Charmides, 'seeing that this fellow here has given me my orders."
"things other than the one, if in fact they are different things and not a different thing, are more than one."
"It then crumbles and, by a reverse process, is dissolved into that nourishment which, in its turn, enters the flesh, and as the flesh lands in the blood it causes all of the previously mentioned diseases to become."
"But it is not possible, Theodorus, that evil should be destroyed for there must always be something opposed to the good; nor is it possible that it should have its seat in heaven."
"Ouk on' ('not being'), in turn, is 'ouk ion' ('not going'), and indeed some people actually use that name for it."
"Because we already have a correct judgment about the way a thing differs from other things; and we are then directed to add a correct judgment about the way it differs from other things."
"The Greek phrase translated 'capable of sight' here"
"the man whose love is bound to be inconstant, since what he loves is itself mutable and unstable."
"That's quite impracticable."
"Merely to hear about it is startling enough."
"He used stone, and he found stone that resembled ivory as closely as possible."
"This is true of the species as a whole, and also of its individual members, each of which is born with its allotted span of life, barring unavoidable accidents."
"Come then, give me the general principle."
"Such disturbances would occur when the body encountered and collided with external fire (i.e., fire other than the body's own) or for that matter with a hard lump of earth or with the flow of gliding waters, or when it was caught up by a surge of air driven winds."
"And in a ship, if someone were free to do what he liked, but was completely lacking in insight and skill in navigation, don't you see what would happen to him and his fellow sailors?"
"Do you know where he says that the Trojan river that had single combat with Hephaestus is 'called 'Xanthos' by the gods and 'Skamandros' by men'?"
"But if you are ever willing to hold a discussion in such a way that I can follow, I will participate in it with you."
"Doesn't it clearly mean that I am unable to refute the argument?"
"But if anyone disagrees, we must listen to his case."
"And his father's name also seems to accord with nature."
"Cratylus Is it also the best way to discover the things that are?"
"This is the reason why these four particular constituents were used to beget the body of the world, making it a symphony of proportion."
"The order of precedence on the female side is to be: (a) the deceased's sister, (b) his brother's daughter, (c)"
"recognize and greet each other at the sacrifices in mutual friendship and there can be no greater benefit for a state than that the citizens should be well known one to another."
"So I, in order that our argument should go forward, said, 'But if it seems right, Critias, let us now grant this point, that the existence of a science of science is possible we can investigate on some other occasion whether this is really the case or not."
"First of all, it is not easy to show what it is that you call 'being overcome by pleasure,' and then, it is upon this very point that all the arguments rest."
"Should we give him a rest and substitute for him young Socrates here, who trains with him?"
"When they are not as strong as soda and effect only a moderate rinsing, they taste salty to us."
"Because you stoop to compete with these people."
"In dealings with the state and one's fellow citizens, the best man by far is the one who, rather than win a prize at Olympia or in any of the other contests in war and peace, would prefer to beat everyone by his reputation for serving the laws of his country a reputation for having devoted a lifetime of service to them with more distinction than anyone else."
"<U+03BA>a<U+03BA><U+03BF>f<U+03C5><U+03B9>¨ (kakophui¨a), bad nature:"
"Perhaps you do not have an answer ready, but examine as I tell you whether these subjects are the just and the unjust, the beautiful and the ugly, the good and the bad."
"What about the arts of imitation, whose function is to produce likenesses?"
"I met him when I was very young and he was a very old man; and he seemed to me to have a wholly noble depth."
"So here's how I cast my own vote:"
"If a man kills an innocent slave, fearing that he will inform against his own shocking and disgraceful conduct, or prompted by some similar motive, he should submit to trial, when a slave has died in these circumstances, precisely as he would have submitted to trial for murder if he had killed a citizen."
"Well now, Socrates, it seems likely that either you don't regard me as your friend, or if you do, you don't obey Hipparchus."
"the old man was so eager to teach me because I kept on asking one question after another that the story has stayed with me like the indelible markings of a picture with the colors burnt in."
"Or have we been delivered of them all?"
"The city really belongs to them, yet they derive no good from it."
"Good education and upbringing, when they are preserved, produce good natures, and useful natures, who are in turn well educated, grow up even better than their predecessors, both in their offspring and in other respects, just like other animals."
"e<U+03C5> <U+03BB>a ße<U+03B9>a (eulabeia), caution: being on guard against what is bad; being sure to be on guard."
"Are we agreed on that?"
"There we will be free ourselves, and in control of others."
"Do you think that anyone who is sick must necessarily have gout, or fever, or eye ache?"
"In the process they contract the vessels and dry them up."
"They'll take the sturdy children with them, so that, like the children of other craftsmen, they can see what they'll have to do when they grow up."
"For in each case, whoever does not somehow grasp the four things mentioned will never fully attain knowledge of the fifth."
"As a money maker I'm in a sort of mean between my grandfather and my father."
"Right then; you plan, as I say, to come forward and advise the Athenians some time soon."
"I would very much like to see the man who could do it."
"Well, then, in addition to what has been said now, also answer this question."
"We take an indefinitely long period of time and study the changes that occur in it."
"Another kind employs only narration by the poet himself you find this most of all in dithyrambs."
"I would pray, no doubt, to become a tyrant, over all people if possible, but if not, over as many as possible."
"And, as to the vowels themselves, mustn't we also divide off those that differ in kind from one another?"
"Agamemnon, of course, is one of his great warriors, while he describes Menelaus as a 'limp spearman.'"
"Ammon, a great god of the Egyptians, had a famous oracle at Siwah, not far from Theodorus' home city of Cyrene."
"So it seems that our discussion, too, has found its."
"Is that plain to you or not?"
"Why, I take wisdom to be quite a different thing from courage."
"And so difference is not the same as oneness or being.' '"
"Then, may we confidently assume in the case of a human being, too, that if he is to be gentle toward his own and those he knows, he must be a lover of learning and wisdom?"
", I asked him: 'So what's it to you?"
"So let's fix on the one which has the largest number of consecutive divisors."
"They must get laws on all religious matters from Delphi, and appoint Expounders of them; that will provide them with a code to be obeyed."
"Did that boy utter all this?"
"We are all agreed now that what you said is as true as possible, Socrates."
"Accepting an emendation to poia au in ."
"for surely we won't say that a god is deficient in either beauty or virtue."
"Then is it possible for the same nature to be a philosopher a lover of wisdom and a lover of falsehood?"
"he set to run in circles that equal the Sun's in speed, though they received the power contrary to its power."
"After plane surfaces, we went on to revolving solids before dealing with solids by themselves."
"Thus the eye and some other thing one of the things commensurate with the eye which has come into its neighborhood, generate both whiteness and the perception which is by nature united with it (things which would never have come to be if it had been anything else that eye or object approached)."
"It does appear that way.' '"
"(Achilles is insulting his commander, Agamemnon)."
"But you didn't appreciate how the role of the gods contributes to the total scheme of things."
"To turn itself by itself forever is, I dare say, impossible for anything except the one who guides all the things which, unlike him, are in movement; and for him to cause movement now in one way, now in the opposite way is not permitted."
"Now if I profited from this by charging a fee for my advice, there would be some sense to it, but you can see for yourselves that, for all their shameless accusations, my accusers have not been able in their impudence to bring forward a witness to say that I have ever received a fee or ever asked for one."
"Once he had given the best for each as the cause for each and the general cause of all, I thought he would go on to explain the common good for all, and I would not have exchanged my hopes for a fortune."
"And indeed, just about every type of succumbing to pleasure is talked about as something reproachable, as though the evils are willfully done."
"Would we not send him to the physicians?."
"Doesn't it require the opposite if it is to speak appropriately, namely, all kinds of musical modes and all kinds of rhythms, because it contains every type of variation?"
"Come to that, if one day we ran out of sparring partners completely, living or otherwise, and had no one to practice with."
"Many compositions by many different poets were recited, and many of us children got to sing the verses of Solon, because they were new at the time."
"If my defense is more convincing to you than to the Athenian jury, it will be well."
"Hence, they pursue mere verbal contradictions of what has been said and have a quarrel rather than a conversation."
"I believe that you are right, Socrates, but why don't we try to be more explicit about this very point?"
"In relation to the organization of life as a whole."
"Come then, and I'll show you more clearly what I'm saying, if I can."
"Then if he pursued the argument as I did and said: 'We always arrive at the many; do not talk to me in that way, but since you call all these many by one name, and say that no one of them is not a shape even though they are opposites, tell me what this is which applies as much to the round as to the straight and which you call shape, as you say the round is as much a shape as the straight.'"
"Tell me, Gorgias, is Callicles right in saying that you make claims about answering any question anyone might put to you?"
"I think that the majority, on hearing this, will think that it describes the philosophers very well, and our people in Thebes would thoroughly agree that philosophers are nearly dead and that the majority of men is well aware that they deserve to be."
"What do you have to say?"
"If not disgraceful, is it honorable?'"
"Then I dare say you will be grateful to me if I help you to discover the veiled truth in the thought of a great man or perhaps I should say, of great men?"
"When a man judges 'ugly' instead of 'beautiful', or 'beautiful' instead of 'ugly', then he is truly judging what is false."
"However, we must resort to our 'charms' and try to persuade everybody to think it more important to produce well balanced children than to marry his equal and never stop lusting for wealth."
"Our state's legislator, you see, need not bother his head very much about the merchantshipping business, trading, retailing, inn keeping, customs duties, mining, money lending and compound interest."
"Our second law will permit the young man under thirty to take wine in moderation, but he must stop short of drunkenness and bibulous excesses."
"Now that we have described the nature and number of the parts into which the whole state is divided, and done what we can to frame laws for all the most important agreements men make, we're left with the question of legal procedure."
"The American logician and philosopher."
"So, then, Thrasymachus, no one in any position of rule, insofar as he is a ruler, seeks or orders what is advantageous to himself, but what is advantageous to his subject, that on which he practices his craft."
"Now the thing to which we have given the name of 'heavens' and 'cosmos' certainly has a portion of many blessed things from its progenitor, but on the other hand it also has its share of body."
"My dear Crito, don't you realize that in every pursuit most of the practitioners are paltry and of no account whereas the serious men are few and beyond price?"
"I think, said Adeimantus, that he'd be very like Glaucon here, as far as the love of victory is concerned."
"But that is beneficial."
"But good people are just and able to do no wrong?"
"Men, women and children should participate, and the authorities will decide from time to time whether to take them out on maneuvers en masse or in sections."
"So he separated them and placed Clinias in Ariphron's house and tried to educate him there."
"They'd say that if he knows what he's doing his laws should make the state as huge and as rich as possible; he should give the citizens gold mines and silver mines, and enable them to control as many people as possible by land and sea."
"How are we doing that?"
"The same proverb appears at Gorgias."
": this is my first appearance in a lawcourt, at the age of seventy; I am therefore simply a stranger to the manner of speaking here."
"As for the judge, he does rule other souls with his own soul."
"And then from the controlling sort, we took one that was set over inanimate products, and one set over living creatures; and it's by splitting things up in just this way that we have been progressing all the time to the point where we are now."
"But if the men called him 'Astyanax', isn't it clear that 'Skamandrios' must be what the women called him?"
"No, they need nothing else."
"Thus it indeed comes to be both younger and older than itself.' '"
"Gorgias of Leontini was the most famous teacher of rhetoric to visit Athens."
"So I chant incantations over you and offer you little tidbits from each of the wise till I succeed in assisting you to bring your own belief forth into the light."
"He then sent to Athens a bloodcurdling report that not a single Eretrian had got away propaganda which asked us to believe that Datis' soldiers, hand in hand in a long line, had combed over every inch of Eretria."
"He is deeply committed, more deeply indeed than Protagoras, to Protagoras' initial claim that virtue is a rationally based expertise at deliberation and decision."
"We believe in them whether they cure us with our consent or without it, by cutting or burning or applying some other painful treatment, and whether they do so according to written rules or apart from written rules, and whether as poor men or rich."
"I thought you were going to say 'madly,' which would have been the truth, and is also just what I was looking for: We did say, didn't we, that love is a kind of madness?"
"So the sort of people who don't think they know how to do things make no mistakes in life, because they leave those things to other people."
"Yes,' I'll say: 'Whatever is the fine itself?' '"
"Or can what does no harm do anything bad?"
"Simply this: the mortal soul simply does not exist, my friends, which by dint of its natural qualities will ever make a success of supreme authority among men while it is still young and responsible to no one."
"Is one type mutually willing exchange, through gifts and wages and purchase?"
"Clearly it couldn't be anything other than what's left over."
"The result is terribly noisy, very sweaty, and disorderly."
"There things will belong to us, because we will derive some advantage from them."
"Well, doesn't it happen like this?"
"So make this the point of division."
"If anyone takes over another man's bees, by making rattling noises to please and attract them, so that he gets them for himself, he must pay for the injury he has done."
"Then come here, so that you can see how many forms of vice there are, anyhow that I consider worthy of examination."
"Hence they cannot establish here on earth conventions about what is fine or just or good, when they need to be established, or guard and preserve them, once they have been established."
"Wasn't the imitation that we just mentioned the kind that's associated with knowledge?"
"Don't the examples just given make the slightest impression on us?"
"Recall, for example, that we consider it more honorable to declare your love rather than to keep it a secret, especially if you are in love with a youth of good family and accomplishment, even if he isn't all that beautiful."
"This man will have great power in that city, and no one will do him any wrong and get away with it."
"It is up to you to decide whether for this purpose you need to divide off different kinds of pleasure and knowledge or can leave that out, if you are able and willing to show some other way to settle the issues of our controversy."
"Tell me about the one who is really a doctor."
"This kind of thing we may properly call 'future'."
"Then, having educated others like himself to take his place as guardians of the city, he will depart for the Isles of the Blessed and dwell there."
"These opinions have now just been stirred up like a dream, but if he were repeatedly asked these same questions in various ways, you know that in the end his knowledge about these things would be as accurate as anyone's."
"Say yes or no to what I ask you."
"And that there are two kinds of madness, one produced by human illness, the other by a divinely inspired release from normally accepted behavior?"
"No,' Zeno replied. '"
"Isn't it the charioteer's skill?"
"How about in medicine?"
"a<U+03B9> d<U+03C9> (aido¯s), modesty: voluntarily drawing back from reckless behavior, according to what is right and seems best; voluntarily holding to what is best; being cautious to avoid justified criticism."
"Is that what I seem to you to think?"
"For the type of priests and seers is filled full of self importance and gets a lofty reputation because of the magnitude of what they undertake, so that in Egypt it is not even permitted for a king to hold office without also exercising that of priest."
"And, in the same way, the older, in its turn, comes to be younger than the younger."
"No, he wouldn't, at least not if the defect was in the soul, but if it was only in the body, he'd put up with it and be willing to embrace the boy who had it."
"But nowadays, what with the non Attic word 'kiein', the change from 'e' to 'e¯', and the insertion of 'n', we say 'kine¯sis', though it ought to be 'kieine¯sis'. 'Stasis' ('rest') is a beautified version of a name meaning the opposite of 'ienai' ('moving')."
"That is certainly what we'd do if it were up to us."
"We know that the more vigorous any seed, developing plant, or animal is, the more it is deficient in the things that are appropriate for it to have when it is deprived of suitable food, season, or location."
"Now, if you rejoice about evils that happen to your enemy, is there any injustice or malice in your pleasure?"
"Just the thing I'm eager to do."
"the relatives must prosecute the killer for murder; (ii)"
"There are many reasons, then, why we should talk and not waste our afternoon in sleep."
"Well, then, won't things that partake of the one partake of it, while being different from it?' '"
"He bound all the limbs together with sinews that could contract and relax, and so enabled the body to flex about the pivots and to stretch itself out."
"The function of the art of the carder."
"I suppose he would rather suffer anything than live like that."
"So compacted, the water above the earth which is most affected by this change turns to hail, while that on earth turns to ice."
", how are we to do so?"
"Similarly, you mustn't force us to give our guardians the kind of happiness that would make them something other than guardians."
"Now what moves in disorder (which is exactly how the kind of living things around us behaves for the most part)"
"We say, don't we, that there is the justice of a single man and also the justice of a whole city?"
"It strikes me that's not at all easy to determine!' '"
"what one does not know?' '"
"Then let's not demand an account of any of these professions from Homer or the other poets."
"That too is entirely necessary."
"And if it isn't altered, it must not move either?' '"
"To give oneself to a vile man in a vile way is truly disgraceful behavior; by contrast, it is perfectly honorable to give oneself honorably to the right man."
"Epinomis those who know these things really wise and good?"
"If you want to know the probable truth about the name 'ho¯rai' ('seasons'), you must look to the fact that it is spelled 'horai' in old Attic."
"After all, my friends, such themes are worth a hearing."
"They are out of kilter and unstable."
"I dare say I never objected nor, I believe, ever will object to these arguments, nor to many other eloquent ones like them, to the effect that virtue is teachable and that more care should be devoted to one's self than to anything else."
"What I have said comes, in short, to this: whenever we see a book, whether the laws of a legislator or a composition on any other subject, we can be sure that if the author is really serious, this book does not contain his best thoughts; they are stored away with the fairest of his possessions."
"Remaining permanently in the same state and condition, and being permanently the same, belongs only to the most divine things of all, and by its nature body is not of this order."
"Clever men call this the diagonal, so that if diagonal is its name, you say that the double figure would be that based on the diagonal?"
"So if the fine is a cause of the good, the good should come to be from the fine."
"Ajax was maddened by this injustice and finally killed himself because of the terrible things he had done while mad."
"I myself, Meno, am as poor as my fellow citizens in this matter, and I blame myself for my complete ignorance about virtue."
"Nor would we have known what skill makes a ring better if we didn't know what a ring was."
"Almost all the bystanders might have explained the poems better than their authors could."
"When four of these equilateral triangles are combined, a single solid angle is produced at the junction of three plane angles."
"Accepting the conjecture of anero¯te¯theis in."
"Yet again, it is impossible to think that a thing you both know and are perceiving, when you are holding its imprint in line with your perception of it, is another thing which you know and are perceiving, and whose imprint you keep in line with the perception"
"That is in fact the best thing about the speech:"
"For once you are released from this prison cell, you will set forth yonder, to a place free from all struggle, grief, and old age, a tranquil life untroubled by anything bad, resting in undisturbed peace, surveying Nature and practicing philosophy, not for a crowd of spectators, but in the bountiful midst of Truth.' '"
"But when one hears a man speaking haltingly or sees him playing like a child, it strikes me as ridiculous and unmanly, deserving of a flogging."
"So, if we ever find this happening in the soul, we'll know that we aren't dealing with one thing but many."
"the state of the soul which is unmoved by fear; military confidence; knowledge of the facts of warfare; selfrestraint in the soul about what is fearful and terrible; boldness in obedience to wisdom; being intrepid in the face of death; the state which stands on guard over correct thinking in dangerous situations;"
"Consider what we shall say in answer to one who deems the soul to be a mixture of bodily elements and to be the first to perish in the process we call death.'"
"A fine sentiment, Cephalus, but, speaking of this very thing itself, namely, justice, are we to say unconditionally that it is speaking the truth and paying whatever debts one has incurred?"
"Orpheus' singing was said to be able to charm animals and trees and even rocks."
"With those preliminaries, we may now put in due form our approval or disapproval of the various forms of hunting, commending the kind that is a good influence on the younger generation and censuring the other sort."
"Then I now have two forms of motion, alteration and spatial movement."
"What about when I say 'being and oneness'?"
"That was what we said."
"It's completely inevitable."
"'I don't see any difference,' he said. '"
"Supposing you were asked, 'If a man has once come to know a certain thing, and continues to preserve the memory of it, is it possible that, at the moment when he remembers it, he doesn't know this thing that he is remembering?'"
"Do you think that anyone hearing this would choose to fight hard, lean dogs, rather than to join them in fighting fat and tender sheep?"
"Let's go; if that's the situation, speed is essential.' '"
"And that the truthful and the liars are different, complete opposites of one another?"
"So let us put the life of pleasure and the life of knowledge on trial, and reach some verdict by looking at them separately."
"he seemed to me to be amazing in stature and appearance, and everyone there looked to me to be in love with him, they were so astonished and confused by his entrance, and many other lovers followed in his train."
"you are often overcome by pleasant things like food or drink or sex, and you do those things all the while knowing they are ruinous?'"
"Then I say that in this case one must immediately distribute what goes on foot by opposing the two footed to the four footed class, and when one sees the human still sharing the field with the winged alone, one must go on to cut the two footed herd by means of the non feathered and the feathered; and when it has been cut, and the expertise of humanherding has then"
"For things other than the one, since they are different, would also be different in kind.' '"
", sometimes it came from a man; either way, they kept on dying."
"and I saw that I was in danger of betraying Dion's hospitality and friendship at a time of no little real danger to him."
"But we agreed that man is that which rules the body."
"In particular, your first task now is to keep to the said number as long as you live; you must respect the upper limits of the total property which you originally distributed as being reasonable, and not buy and sell your holdings among yourselves."
"Or how do we express it?."
"The things that enter and leave it are imitations of those things that always are, imprinted after their likeness in a marvellous way that is hard to describe."
"Or do you suppose that I'm saying that if a rubbish heap of slaves and motley men, worthless except perhaps in physical strength, gets together and makes any statements, then these are the rules?"
"On the other hand, it certainly seems rude and uncivilized for a visitor not to oblige you and these people here, especially when you've spoken the way you have."
"C. Alcibiades foreign countries."
"They were being destroyed by wild beasts because they were weaker in every way, and although their technology was adequate to obtain food, it was deficient when it came to fighting wild animals."
"But, my friend, the priests of the temple of Zeus at Dodona say that the first prophecies were the words of an oak."
"I'm purposely using the same examples in speaking to you, so that you'll understand more easily."
"So again, each of the two parts possesses oneness and being; and the part, in its turn, is composed of at least two parts; and in this way always, for the same reason, whatever part turns up always possesses these two parts, since oneness always possesses being and being always possesses oneness."
"Now we'll think about the most fundamental and most important expression."
"You've trapped me again!"
"Although the class of the unlimited also displays a multiplicity, it preserved at least the appearance of unity, since it was marked out by the common character of the more and less."
"There are many other reasons for my not being angry with you for convicting me, men of Athens, and what happened was not unexpected."
"Critias flowers and fruits as well, and they flourished there."
"Law, then, is not what is accepted."
"And, remarkably, through the middle of the greatest of the islands they laid out a separate race course for horses, one stade wide, and it extended in a circle around the entire island."
"Doesn't each of them rather do the following:"
"That's what I thought as soon as I heard you say it."
"The word translated here and below as 'fraction' is elsewhere translated as 'part.'"
"So this is precisely the point we have to tackle next?"
"What else would you do with the argument?"
"For without them, no one in cities will ever become happy."
"But surely, if a man whose nature is equal to it arises, he will shake off, tear apart, and escape all this, he will trample underfoot our documents, our tricks and charms, and all our laws that violate nature."
"Then if something is attributed to both pleasures but not to each one, they would not be fine by that attribute."
"Would he make false likenesses of ancient events because of his ignorance of them?"
"Nor to make him pick up ashes in both hands and pour them over his head, weeping and lamenting in the ways he does in Homer."
"This combination of the first two is the 'third' love we enumerated a moment ago."
"Nor should we agree that he was such a money lover that he would accept the gifts of Agamemnon or release the corpse of Hector for a ransom but not otherwise."
"Yours she founded first, a thousand years before ours, when she had received from Earth and Hephaestus the seed from which your people were to come."
"I really couldn't make it yesterday,' he continued, 'but nothing could stop me tonight!"
"Edmonds (Loeb) Elegy and Iambus, vol."
"Then, Protagoras,' we shall say, 'what about things that are going to be in the future?"
"Hence the result of the discussion, as far as I'm concerned, is that I know nothing, for when I don't know what justice is, I'll hardly know whether it is a kind of virtue or not, or whether a person who has it is happy or unhappy."
"You certainly put up a spirited defense for pleasure now, Protarchus!"
"Later, when the body's cleansing is complete, the swelling subsides, and the spleen once again shrinks back to its normal size."
"Nor is it in some of the parts: for if the whole were Parmenides in some, the greater would be in the less, which is impossible.' '"
"So I will gratify you and say that, on the basis of what we have agreed upon, it seems to me to be impossible.'"
"Tell me, in God's name, don't you think that in our city the wise are in a minority, and most people are stupid, or, as you would say, mad?"
"And of course this helps intelligent legislation tremendously, because legal instructions, once written down, remain fixed and permanent, ready to stand up to scrutiny forever."
"Then consider whether, since it is as we have said, it can be at rest or in motion.' '"
"Or that he'd make his parents the slaves of these others, if he brought them under the same roof?"
"This is what you mean, isn't it the fine points of the art?"
"Isn't it intermediate between these two, a sort of calm of the soul by comparison to them?"
"So the reason that corruption of one's soul is the most shameful of them"
"I think, Socrates, that somehow this is no longer like those other cases."
"A little later he says he wouldn't be persuaded by Odysseus and Agamemnon, and wouldn't stay in Troy at all."
"Therefore, he won't be serious about writing them in ink, sowing them, through a pen, with words that are as incapable of speaking in their own defense as they are of teaching the truth adequately."
"This in particular is what merits praise in the men who fought the sea battles of those times: they freed the Greeks from this second terror and made them stop fearing preponderance in ships and men."
"For think, Theodorus."
"And now, since you are the father of writing, your affection for it has made you describe its effects as the opposite of what they really are."
"Well then: all the things we make and acquire are either for the sake of our doing something, or they prevent something's happening to us."
"The discussion has gone really well for you this time."
"So you had better take counsel as to your own procedure.' '"
"We know how to settle our potters on couches by the fire, feasting and passing the wine around, with their wheel beside them for whenever they want to make pots."
"But it isn't the greatest either, since he didn't chance upon a constitution that suits him."
"The frequent and repeated revolts in Messenia, and in the states where people possess a lot of slaves who all speak the same language, have shown the evils of the system often enough; and we can also point to the various crimes and adventures of the robbers who plague Italy, the 'Rangers', as they're called."
"Close behind comes the title of those of high birth to govern those of low birth."
"They regard themselves as very wise, and reasonably so, since they think they are not only pretty well up in philosophy but also in politics."
"This speech and Clinias'"
"If someone is emptied for the first time, is there any way he could be in touch with filling, either through sensation or memory, since he has no experience of it, either in the present or ever in the past?"
"Is it a difficult time?"
"Now look back to the beginning."
"Rugged rather than flat, you mean?"
"But I shall mention what I think is their finest achievement: they accomplished the successor to the task accomplished at Marathon."
"Do you want us to consider now how such people will come to be in our city and how just as some are said to have gone up from Hades to the gods we'll lead them up to the light?"
"As it is, you see, we may easily find ourselves forced into saying the most astonishing and ridiculous things, as Protagoras would point out or anyone who undertook to expound the same views."
"It will turn out to be a body in the same sense, since it is composed of the same elements."
"I'll do that, Socrates, but I hope that you will also continue to think about these matters yourself. '"
"Do I persuade you at all, and are you changing your mind to believe that those who are orderly are happier than those who are undisciplined, or, even if I tell you many other such stories, will you change it none the more for that?"
"Therefore, that's what I deserve."
"Well, why don't you praise me?"
"With that in mind, we may go back to asking questions of ourselves. '"
"But don't put up your guard."
"If anything immortal is increased, you know that the increase would have to come from the mortal, and then everything would end up being immortal."
"But sometimes they find these performances going against the grain of their natural character or their disposition or habits, in which case they are unable to take any pleasure in them and applaud them, and in this case the word they use is 'shocking'."
"It is fine and liquid and on account of its mobility and the way it rolls over the ground it is called 'liquid.'"
"The one that decides how to make war against each group of people against whom we choose to make war."
"Just be sure to report them."
"The fire cuts up the food in our bellies and as it follows the breath it oscillates inside us."
"What charge does he bring against you?"
"Then if someone breaks the lyre, cuts or breaks the strings and then insists, using the same argument as you, that the harmony must still exist and is not destroyed because it would be impossible for the lyre and the strings, which are mortal, still to exist when the strings are broken, and for the harmony, which is akin and of the same nature as the divine and immortal, to be destroyed before that which is mortal; he would say that the harmony itself still must exist and that the wood and the strings must rot before the harmony can suffer."
"Let us rather declare that the cause and purpose of this supreme good is this: the god invented sight and gave it to us so that we might observe the orbits of intelligence in the universe and apply them to the revolutions of our own understanding."
"They maintain that most people are unwilling to do what is best, even though they know what it is and are able to do it."
"We'll call the part of the soul with which it calculates the rational part and the part with which it lusts, hungers, thirsts, and gets excited by other appetites the irrational appetitive part, companion of certain indulgences and pleasures."
"Moving this and the preceding line, so as to make them follow (a conjectural transposition)."
"It is not this point,' I said, 'on which I am confused, that whenever someone possesses this thing which knows itself he will know himself, but how the person possessing it will necessarily know what he knows and what he does not know.' '"
"You can see that distinctive kind of Spartan wisdom in their pithy, memorable sayings, which they jointly dedicated as the first fruits of their wisdom to Apollo in his temple at Delphi, inscribing there the maxims now on everyone's lips: 'Know thyself' and 'Nothing in excess.'"
"And now we've agreed that injustice, and corruption of soul as a whole, is the most shameful thing."
"I mean, any child is going to fall out with his parents sooner or later,"
"Now one part of ourselves is the body, another part is the soul?"
"That is just what we ought to say."
"It comprehends each of them, expressing his power in music, prophecy, medicine, and archery."
"And were they different from the beautiful, he asked, or were they the same as the beautiful?"
"Do you follow me now?"
"Part of debating, it turns out, wastes money and the other part makes money."
"Many of these varieties are nameless, though four of them, all with fire in them, are particularly conspicuous and so have been given names."
"We said that names signify the being or essence of things to us on the assumption that all things are moving and flowing and being swept along."
"Then what you think is what you did not say a moment ago that being buried by your children and burying your parents is foul sometimes, and for some people."
"If ill treatment prevents a parent from complaining, any free man who discovers the situation should alert the authorities."
"So it's on matters you know about that you're a good adviser."
"When it has cooled Timaeus it turns to stone that is black in color (i.e., lava)."
"Or does there rise up against you, every time, a vast army of persons who think the opposite, who hold that your decisions and your thoughts are false?"
"And right up to the present day Sparta has never stopped fighting the other two members."
", will you be satisfied if I answer nothing to the purpose?"
"Haven't we often agreed that if names are well given, they are like the things they name and so are likenesses of them?"
"The second best, Clinias, obviously."
"And don't say that he'll confiscate any of my possessions, either, so"
"I want to see for myself what sort of a face I have."
"They won't be harsh, if indeed they realize this."
"So let us imitate Menelaus and refuse to release the pair until they have shown us their serious side."
"They praise love this way"
"And if you were sick, would you rather take a chance with a wise doctor or with an ignorant one?"
"With regard to what craft or way of life involved in the constitution of the city are the natures of men and women not the same but different?"
"And what about these, Socrates?"
"<U+03BB>a<U+03BB><U+03B9>a (lalia), talkativeness: irrational lack of self restraint in speech."
"Doesn't this also hold for sounds and all things musical?"
"Is it your opinion that your child ought in any case to be brought up and not exposed to die?"
"And because people need many things, and because one person calls on a second out of one need and on a third out of a different need, many people gather in a single place to live together as partners and helpers."
"But after this they will doubtless show you serious things, if anyone will, and I shall give them a lead to make sure they hand over what they promised me."
"If oneness isn't present in the others, the others are neither many nor one.' '"
"Furthermore, whenever each part comes to be one part, the parts then have a limit in relation to each other and in relation to the whole, and the whole has a limit in relation to the parts.' '"
"Whoever then turns you out to be most like these men, he'll make you a politician in the way you desire to be one, and an orator, too."
"I mean that it looks as though our rulers will have to make considerable use of falsehood and deception for the benefit of those they rule."
"Love's value to the city as a whole and to the citizens is immeasurable, for he compels the lover and his loved one alike to make virtue their central concern."
"Should the guardians know no more than that both these terms are a plurality, or should they understand the senses in which they are unities?"
"Or isn't that the way you people behave to fine and beautiful boys?"
"Enjoy your banquet of words!"
"One mina was the equivalent of drachmas."
"Do we believe that death is this, namely, that the body comes to be separated by itself apart from the soul, and the soul comes to be separated by itself apart from the body?"
"We'll do it, Socrates, god willing."
"Well, if we can't find anything apart from these, let's consider one of the subjects that touches all of them."
"His intentions in so doing were these:"
"You're right,' he said. '"
"That's certainly my opinion."
"May no one of my household or friends, whether citizen or stranger, be mad enough to go to these people and be harmed by them, for they clearly cause the ruin and corruption of their followers."
"Yes, we did keep saying that."
"What do you suppose will happen to me if I begin to praise his opposite?"
"In proposing their choice the electors should confine themselves to the experts, and in the scrutiny there must be only one reason for accepting or rejecting the candidate the lot has favored: that he is experienced or inexperienced as the case may be."
"It sounds as if he hit off the situation very well."
"What do you mean now?"
"Here, then, is how the captive is caught: 'Remember how we divided each soul in three at the beginning of our story two parts in the form of horses and the third in that of a charioteer?"
"It seems a distinction is in order here."
"If a man obeys, he shall go unmolested by the law; but if he disobeys, the Guardians of the and the priests and priestesses must punish him, as we said just now."
"And do you write the names of your enemies just as much as your own names and those of your friends?' '"
"Have you been thinking that there can be no strong friendship in the absence of erotic love?"
"Very true if you're right about the facts."
"Isn't this the upshot of our discussion?"
"Consequently, I'm never able to determine whether his lack of clarity is intentional or unintentional."
"By Zeus, you do, too, given what you were agreeing to."
"If, therefore, it is a friend, it is for the sake of something.' '"
"In the sphere of vision, to begin with, what you would naturally call a white color is not itself a distinct entity, either outside your eyes or in your eyes."
"Then we know that when he shows his drawings from far away he'll be able to fool the more mindless young children into thinking that he can actually produce anything he wants to."
"Why aren't you with Aristophanes or anyone else"
"Well, I suppose you don't think me capable of taking up your 'truly false', and asking you whether it is possible that a thing should be slowly swift, or heavily light, or whether anything else can possibly occur in a way not in accordance with its own nature but in accordance with that of its opposite and contrary to itself."
"No, there certainly isn't, Socrates."
"So the soul is more like the invisible than the body, and the body more like the visible?"
"And while the political system passes through this transitional stage they will administer the state themselves."
"but had disguised the name and said 'Tantalus' instead."
"Sometimes a man may forcibly prevent a litigant or witness from appearing at a trial."
"They know very well that anyone who does anything wrong or bad does so involuntarily."
"They already possess a pattern of how to bring up free born children, in the education they themselves give up their own, and in the way they manage their private possessions and of course the rules they have to guide them on those matters are pretty exact."
"Then opinion is neither ignorance nor knowledge?"
"But couldn't the good still be friend to the good"
"Alternatively: 'or that, although they are thoughts, they are not thought?'"
"a sketch of a legal and political framework."
"To begin with, our driver is in charge of a pair of horses; second, one of his horses is beautiful and good and from stock of the same sort, while the other is the opposite and has the opposite sort of bloodline."
"This, then, is what we should understand about pleasure and pain: an unnatural disturbance that comes upon us with great force and intensity is painful, while its equally intense departure, leading back to the natural state, is pleasant."
"It has completely eliminated from our country"
"What's more, his standing among the audience was much higher than Prodicus'.'"
"So we won't hurry over the problem, and only when we've looked into it properly shall we draw any firm conclusions."
"and so would be a sum."
"And if different rule setters do not make each name out of the same syllables, we mustn't forg that different blacksmiths, who are making the same tool for the same type of work, don't all make it out of the same iron."
"You think that, insofar as he's a shepherd, he fattens sheep, not looking to what is best for the sheep but to a banquet, like a guest about to be entertained at a feast, or to a future sale, like a money maker rather than a shepherd."
"That's exactly my complaint: None of our present constitutions is worthy of the philosophic nature, and, as a result, this nature is perverted and altered, for,"
"But if they give the same advice, why need they all give advice?"
"That would make it a double favor then."
"Yes, that would be appropriate."
"The children's father, for his part, went on accumulating herds and flocks for their benefit and many a herd of human beings too, quite apart from every other sort of animal; but he didn't know that his intended heirs were not being instructed in the traditional Persian discipline."
"The natural cause of the oscillation is as follows:"
"Yes, for Agamemnon is someone who worked hard and persevered, bringing his plans to completion because of his virtue or excellence."
"In particular, when a man is nearing his end his household should invite one Guardian to take charge of him, and if the funeral arrangements pass off decorously and without extravagance, this Guardian in charge will get the credit, but if not, then the blame will be at his door."
"Really, Clinias, you are enthusiastic!"
"In another respect too the people of that time were particularly well placed to make legislation a painless process."
"But it is I, with God's help, who deliver them of this offspring."
"I was poking fun at no one but myself, my friend."
"These all are parts of time, and was and will be are forms of time that have come to be."
"And according to the way our account has turned out, it's what should be called the expertise of the sophist."
"It certainly would, by Zeus, he said."
"Nor would he, the tyrant, be a friend to a man much his inferior, if there were such a man, for the tyrant would despise him and would never take a serious interest in him as a friend."
"Wouldn't it be: 'in what's pertinent to cooking'?"
"Even the women, I think, say that this sort of man is divine, and the Spartans, whenever they applaud someone in high style, say that he is divine."
"So the others are neither one nor two, nor do they have a name of any other number.' '"
"The subject of discussion is the virtue of 'so¯phrosune¯', here translated 'temperance' but there is no adequate translation in modern European languages."
"So let's say that it is for these reasons, Hermogenes, that hitherto no one has wished to come back here from there."
"I have nothing to add on that point."
"Then, do you want us to persuade him, if we're able to find a way, that what he says isn't true?"
"So, Alcibiades, just things are advantageous."
"I say this not as a joke, but because."
"If someone were to take away all counting, measuring, and weighing from the arts and crafts, the rest might be said to be worthless."
"I shall call on you, but in this case as Iolaus calling on Heracles."
"But this expression 'it appears' means '"
"It must be, since they're Muses."
"If a man obeys this law, so much to his credit."
"They must be mentioned with gratitude, because they instilled fear in the king and forced him to ponder his own safety rather than plot the destruction of the Greeks. '"
"It isn't because of any knowledge of that sort."
"But rather, Simmias, according to correct reasoning, no soul, if it is a harmony, will have any share of wickedness, for harmony is surely altogether this very thing, harmony, and would never share in disharmony."
"Now many great accomplishments of your city recorded here are aweinspiring, but there is one that surely surpasses them all in magnitude and excellence."
"However, you did say that he legislated entirely by reference to only one part of virtue, and the most inconsiderable part at that."
"But how about your kind of life, Philebus, which is pleasant and unmixed?"
"Harming, then, is unjust?"
"Then, won't we always need this sort of person as an overseer in our city, Glaucon, if indeed its constitution is to be preserved?"
"But I have come across a great many, in different places, and I have investigated pretty nearly all of them."
"And so, my valiant warrior, haven't we once again, for the third or fourth time, come to the agreement that what's profitable is good?"
"Not a man among you takes his own colt and drags him, furiously protesting, away from the rest of the herd; you never put him in the hands of a private groom, and train him by combing him down and stroking him."
"And that the greatest of boons is what they received."
"And how he disparaged our method of arguments as merely an amusing game, and how solemnly he upheld his 'measure of all things' and commanded us to be serious when we dealt with his theory?"
"But we declare that he is really the one who gave us number too, and he will continue to give it, supposing that we are willing to follow him closely."
"If, for example, there was such a process as going to sleep, but no corresponding process of waking up, you realize that in the end everything would show the story of Endymi to have no meaning."
"Indeed, if a joke is in order, you seem, in appearance and in every other way, to be like the broad torpedo fish, for it too makes anyone who comes close and touches it feel numb, and you now seem to have had that kind of effect on me, for both my mind and my tongue are numb, and I have no answer to give you."
"Not a single detail should be altered, if they can help it; but if they ever believe that the force of circumstances has become irresistible, they must consult all the officials, the entire citizen body and all the oracles of the gods."
"And there'll be poets and their assistants, actors, choral dancers, contractors, and makers of all kinds of devices, including, among other things, those needed for the adornment of women."
"Then the two of you would share one life, as long as you lived, because you would be one being, and by the same token, when you died, you would be one and not two in Hades, having died a single death."
"If one of them leaves his post or throws away his shield or does anything else of that sort through cowardice, shouldn't he be reduced to being a craftsman or farmer?"
"and I will try to tell you the whole story, for nothing"
"Then using our image of possessing and hunting for the pigeons, we shall say that there are two phases of hunting; one before you Theaetetus have possession in order to get possession, and another when you already possess in order to catch and have in your hands what you previously acquired."
"For these do not have any great shared class among them, but if some of them are dragged off into decoration, others into tools, it will be forcibly done, but nevertheless they'll wholly agree to it."
"One of the ten nominees with the most votes must be selected by lot, scrutinized, and be in charge of the choruses for the year according to law."
"If we try to cut contrary to nature, however, we'll be in error and accomplish nothing."
"Letter able of me to avoid taking part in your affairs of state, and secondly, that it was not my advice that prevented you, as you say, and stood in your way when you were going to resettle the Greek cities."
"Thus if one is, the one is all things and is not even one, both in relation to itself and, likewise, in relation to the others.' '"
", take the business in hand: establish the state of the Magnesians (or whatever other name God adopts for it), and if you're successful you'll win enormous fame; at any rate you'll never lose a reputation for courage that will dwarf all your successors'."
"Do you mean those who know, Hippias, or those who don't?"
"Well, then, my good people: Since it has turned out that our salvation in life depends on the right choice of pleasures and pains"
"This conversation is marked as having truly universal significance."
"But did we not agree that it is bad if it is ignorance?"
"Anyway we're not concerned with the people; we're looking for what's true."
"The whole of the rest of the country should be protected as follows."
"If we were making speeches in a court of law, there might be some point in doing this, but as things are, why should anyone adorn himself senselessly with empty words in a gathering like this?"
"And so, unless the one itself is naturally contrary to nature, it would have come to be neither earlier nor later than the others, but at the same time."
"Again, it could be that they're analogous to doctors concerned to defend the body in the war against disease, or to farmers anxiously anticipating the seasons that usually discourage the growth of their crops, or to shepherds."
"May I join you on these terms?"
"He put an 'a' in 'mega' ('large') and an 'e¯' in 'me¯kos' ('length')"
"'I beg you, Agathon,' Socrates said, 'protect me from this man!"
"Aren't thought and speech the same, except that what we call thought is speech that occurs without the voice, inside the soul in conversation with itself?."
"And what will you say?"
"It is quite inevitable that such conditions arise under these circumstances."
"Isn't that so?' 'Necessarily.' '"
"Suppose a number of people are discussing healthy nutrition, and one of them speaks best."
"Then if it's all right with you, let's not say that they'll simply be less angry but that they'll become altogether gentle and persuaded, so that they'll be shamed into agreeing with us, if nothing else."
"This law, or 'pair' of laws, as perhaps we should say, should govern our conduct whenever the sexual urge and the passion of love impel us, wisely or unwisely, to have intercourse."
"But now, since he's included among experts in imitation, first we obviously have to divide productive expertise in two."
"The Greek is ambiguous between 'Love loves beautiful things' and 'Love is one of the beautiful things.'"
"Well, my dear Critias,' said I, 'there would be nothing remarkable in his being ignorant of the matter at his age, but you, because of your age and experience, are very likely to understand it."
"And then too the class of priests, in its turn, has as custom tells us expert knowledge about the giving through sacrifices of gifts from us to the gods which are pleasing to them, and about asking from them through prayers for the acquisition of good things for us."
"How on earth can we be serious, sir, in saying that it makes no odds whether his theft is large or small, or whether it comes from sacred or secular sources?"
"But how should they be organized?"
"And in the midst of all this confusion, he will find that the authors also divorce rhythm and movement from the tune by putting unaccompanied words into meter, and rob tune and rhythm of words by using stringed instruments and pipes on their own without singers."
"If a just person is clever at guarding money, therefore, he must also be clever at stealing it."
"Well, my dear lad, this has been a long yarn; but the reason was that I have a suspicion that you (as you think yourself) are pregnant and in labor."
"(this is a point for the Guardians of the to decide), whereas others who do not wish to attend should not be compelled."
"A proverbial expression whose origin is obscure."
"Would they say so?' '"
"Its merit is that it is intermediate between winter and summer."
"No, each of them always participates in both opposites."
"While I'd always admired the natures of Glaucon and Adeimantus, I was especially pleased on this occasion, and I said: You are the sons of a great man, and Glaucon's lover began his elegy well when he wrote, celebrating your achievements at the battle of Megara, Sons of Ariston, godlike offspring of a famous man."
"To resume, then: when a man of twenty five has observed others and been observed by them and is confident that he has found a family offering someone to his taste who would make a suitable partner for the procreation of children, he should get married, and in any case before he reaches thirty."
"And the fragments of air could produce, from any single particle that is broken up, two fire corpuscles."
"It follows, therefore, that giving in to your lover for virtue's sake is honorable, whatever the outcome."
"Now give me a good frank answer."
"Oh, yes,' he said. '"
"You yourself, so I am told by those who were with you on the embassy to Delphi, addressed the god with this fawning expression, writing, they say, Greetings to you!"
"And do we have to think of them all as being five and not three?"
"But while it is a great thing for the wise man to know everything, the second best is not to be mistaken about oneself, it seems to me."
"In response to Xerxes' invasion, the Athenians abandoned their city walls to destruction and took to the 'wooden walls' of their ships, which were instrumental in defeating the Persians at Salamis."
"So, Theaetetus, what shall we label this knowledge?"
"Socrates, before I even met you I used to hear that you are always in a state of perplexity and that you bring others to the same state, and now I think you are bewitching and beguiling me, simply putting me under a spell, so that I am quite perplexed."
"You certainly couldn't assign it to anyone else."
"Soul is the master, and matter its natural subject."
"You're following the road we set, and we must do as you say."
"she's called Moira or Eilithuia is really Beauty."
"Pleasures are perhaps rather like children who don't possess the least bit of reason."
"And wouldn't it be equally right in practice?"
"'Would you call these things good for the reason that they bring about intense pain and suffering, or because they ultimately bring about health and good condition of bodies and preservation of cities and power over others and wealth?'"
"And again another and yet another thing?"
"Your point has been well and truly put, and you've heard it well and truly endorsed."
"However, we should be glad to hear a clearer explanation of two points: first, the difference between injustice and injury, and secondly the various senses of 'voluntary' and 'involuntary' that you distinguished so elaborately in the course of your argument."
"But isn't this defeat involuntary if conquering is voluntary?"
"So what subject is it, Glaucon, that draws the soul from the realm of becoming to the realm of what is?"
"We could name many people who set their hearts on obtaining sole rulership, and strove to achieve this goal as a great good, and then had their lives taken by plotters against their rule."
"Be a little more explicit, will you?"
"You'll agree, then, that when one needs to keep a shield or a lyre safe and not to use them, justice is a useful thing, but when you need to use them, it is soldiery or musicianship"
"And you failed,' he said, 'since you wanted the loan, whereas he wanted not to give it and didn't fail in that.' '"
"If a slave man or woman damages any piece of someone else's property, then provided the person who suffers the loss was not himself partly to blame because of inexperience or careless conduct"
"Something different indeed, by god."
"Tell me, in God's name, what you think."
"There are mixtures that have their origin in the body and are confined to the body; then, there are mixtures found in the soul, and they are confined to the soul."
"Well, what about this: Isn't it possible for someone who loves somebody not to be loved by him in return?' '"
"Then do you want me to make some sort of decision for you?"
"And since God is capable of this, it is perfectly easy for him first to make any body and any mass of material into a living being and then make it move"
"And the people give it to him, I suppose, because they are afraid for his safety but aren't worried at all about their own."
"If the defendant makes off and refuses to submit to trial, he must remain in exile permanently."
"Thoth figures in a related story about the alphabet at Philebus. ."
"So what answer shall we give to it, Protarchus?"
"This, in turn, is to be able to cut up each kind according to its species along its natural joints, and to try not to splinter any part, as a bad butcher might do."
"Can you now say who in antiquity proved himself a good lawgiver in the sphere of laws of fluteplaying?"
"and he's right if I give him such an answer."
"I often shift back and forth on that from one view to the other, maybe because of my age."
"Accepting an emendation to prokatatithentas in a. Theages"
"Why have you come so early, Crito?"
"So come and reassure him in your usual way, so that he may meet his fate without complaining, and so that I and the rest of the family can also perform the proper rituals.' '"
"Everything that has helped to establish human life has come about from these things, once care from the gods, as has just been said, ceased to be available to human beings, and they had to live their lives through their own resources and take care for themselves, just like the cosmos as a whole, which we imitate and follow for all time, now living and growing in this way, now in the way we did then."
"Well, now, what shall we say about love?"
"Next, he sliced this entire compound in two along its length, joined the two halves together center to center like an, and bent them back in a circle, attaching each half to itself end to end and to the ends of the other half at the point opposite to the one where they had been joined together."
"Do you think they will trust you with their affairs when they perceive that you know enough?'"
"And again, you think that those who do what's unjust are happy, so long as they don't pay what is due."
"I'm sure you notice that it makes no difference at all which of its verses comes first, and which last."
"At last I came to the conclusion that all existing states are badly governed and the condition of their laws practically incurable, without some miraculous remedy and the assistance of fortune; and I was forced to say, in praise of true philosophy, that from her height alone was it possible to discern what the nature of justice is, either in the state or in the individual, and that the ills of the human race would never end until either those who are sincerely and truly lovers of wisdom come into political power, or the rulers of our cities, by the grace of God, learn true philosophy."
"Then by the same token can names ever be like anything unless the things they're composed out of have some kind of likeness to the things they imitate?"
"Do you see how many we are?"
"Although I was witnessing the death of one who was my friend, I had no feeling of pity, for the man appeared happy in both manner and words as he died nobly and without fear, Echecrates, so that it struck me that even in going down to the underworld he was going with the gods' blessing and that he would fare well when he got there, if anyone ever does."
"Ten of them should be chosen by lot, and the names of those whom the lot selects should be reported to Delphi."
"When he had said this, the Speaker threw the lots among all of them, and each with the exception of Er, who wasn't allowed to choose picked up the one that fell next to him."
"I think it's foolish to legislate about such things."
"So, since this was our policy, the Lacedaemonians, thinking that we, the champions of freedom, had fallen and all they had to do now was enslave the other Greeks, set about that very task. '"
"That varied class of things which is worked for things liquid and solid, and for things that are prepared on the fire and things that are not what we refer to with the single name of 'vessel': a common class, and one that, I think, simply does not belong at all to the sort of expert knowledge we are looking for."
"Well, Socrates, I think you ought to be told, and I think I ought to tell you, about a remarkable boy I have met here, one of your fellow countrymen."
"Health heads the list of the lesser benefits, followed by beauty;"
"Its chief work would be to shine upon the whole universe and to bestow upon all those living things appropriately endowed and taught by the revolution of the Same and the uniform, a share in number."
"Just give us your offhand opinion."
"But I was almost forgetting, Theodorus, that there are other thinkers who have announced the opposite view;"
"Perhaps you'll let me try to clarify the issue by means of an illustration."
"After all, nobody would ever choose in favor of health unless he thought it was preferable to wealth.'"
"Note that the Greek word for 'nothing,' me¯den, literally means something like 'not even one' (me¯de hen)."
"The word for 'heart' attributed to Homer here is kear, which has a superficial resemblance to the word for wax, ke¯ros."
"But look at it the other way."
"From that time on, then, I lived outside the acropolis among the mercenaries."
"Carpentry and shoe making, for instance?"
"And doesn't this part rule in some people's souls, while one of the other parts whichever it happens to be rules in other people's?"
"Instead it usually considers him more vapid."
"I learned it while I was with the army, from one of the Thracian doctors of Zalmoxis, who are also said to make men immortal."
"What would you deserve then?"
"(though that does not answer the question what the just is); the same acts can be just or unjust, depending on the situation; justice is knowledge of the right time to do things; people who are unjust are unwillingly unjust."
"To the third set he gave the name Mneseas to the first born and Autochthon to the second born."
"Tell me: can we conceive of two roughly opposite kinds of fear?"
"always at the same point in space, (d) around a fixed center, (e) in the same position relative to other objects, and were to illustrate both by the example of a sphere being turned on a lathe, then no one could ever show us up for incompetent makers of verbal images."
"But neither do the things not one partake of the one; otherwise they would not be not one, but somehow one.' 'True.' '"
"Mankind is immortal because it always leaves later generations behind to preserve its unity and identity for all time: it gets its share of immortality by means of procreation."
"That seems to be so."
"Well, do they like those things on which you know how to make the sharpest distinctions of anybody the functions of letters, syllables, rhythms, and harmonies?"
"law or customary usage itself established, as Socrates immediately goes on to say, by a nomothete¯s, usually a legislator or law giver, but here someone who establishes the rules of usage that give significance to names, a 'rule setter.'"
"Whenever larger sums are involved (or even smaller sums, if the accused is not prepared to submit to trial because he's confident that by moving to a fresh district every month he will get away and 'get off' too), the injured party should file suit against him in the common courts."
"Apparently the 'Nocturnal' council, which has not yet been announced: see ff."
"And in fighting with shields?"
"And you know that you have the same effects on most of your spectators too, don't you?"
"So if it is like that, the one could not even be in time at all, could it?"
"So when someone says that music is judged by the criterion of pleasure, we should reject his argument out of hand, and absolutely refuse to go in for such music (if any were ever produced) as a serious genre."
"there's a certain thing I've always wanted to possess."
"Choose someone who's our superior?"
"One by one, the other judges should follow the most senior and work through any points on which either litigant has left him dissatisfied by some kind of error or omission."
"See Protagoras, a, a. Theaetetus"
"Yes, because you are young, dear lad; and so you lend a ready ear to mob oratory and let it convince you."
"In this connection, here's the next thing to notice: sometimes we find in a state that the juries are useless, dumb things; the individual jurymen keep their opinions a mystery known only to themselves and give their decisions by secret ballot."
"So that which is isn't both change and rest; it's something different from them instead."
"Indeed, how could they possibly dispute it?"
"For example with people, I suppose: one is virtuous, and one is wicked."
"When we abuse or commend the upbringing of individual people and say that one of us is educated and the other uneducated, we sometimes use this latter term of men who have in fact had a thorough education one directed towards petty trade or the merchant shipping business, or something like that."
"And that the good and the bad man feel pain and enjoyment to the same degree, and that perhaps the bad man feels them even more?"
"Besides other minor matters, I did considerable work on the preambles to the laws,.e., on those parts distinct from what you or someone else has added."
"If this man went down into the cave again and sat down in his same seat, wouldn't his eyes coming suddenly out of the sun like that be filled with darkness?"
"But a rational and quiet character, which always remains pretty well the same, is neither easy to imitate nor easy to understand when imitated, especially not by a crowd consisting of all sorts of people gathered together at a theater festival, for the experience being imitated is alien to them."
"Then you, or anyone else who is to be ruler and trustee, not only of himself and his private business, but also the city and the city's business, must first acquire virtue himself."
"He destroys the youngest among you by cutting and burning them, and by slimming them down and choking them he confuses them."
"For your meeting implies that you are not competent but need advisers, while the casting of votes implies that you do not need advisers but are capable of judging and of giving advice."
"You should search for such a charmer among them all, sparing neither trouble nor expense, for there is nothing on which you could spend your money to greater advantage."
"It isn't for the ruler, if he's truly any use, to beg the others to accept his rule."
"Proceeding by any other method would be like walking with the blind."
"If it were still easy for me to walk to town, you wouldn't have to come here; we'd come to you."
"When men pride themselves upon a pedigree of twenty five ancestors, and trace their descent back to Heracles the son of Amphitryon, they seem to him to be taking a curious interest in trifles."
"And others to take care of imports and exports."
"Well, with this account of things we shall destroy shan't we?"
"But I do make this boast: even someone who knows the truth couldn't produce conviction on the basis of a systematic art without me.'"
"They did this especially to make sure that the stimulations received by the senses, coming from either side of the body, might register clearly upon the body as a whole."
"Anyone exchanging money for money or for anything else, animate or inanimate, should always give and receive full value as the law directs."
"It's a blessedly happy necessity he's bound by, since it requires him either to live with the inferior majority, even though they hate him, or not to live at all."
"At that point Pausanias addressed the group: 'Well, gentlemen, how can we arrange to drink less tonight?"
"Well then, suppose you do your level best during these years to shelter him from distress and fright and any kind of pain at all."
"Pseudos' ('falsehood') is the opposite of this motion, so that, once again, what is restrained or compelled to be inactive is reviled by the name giver, and likened to people asleep (katheudousi) but the meaning of the name is concealed by the addition of 'ps'."
"Full treatment of the question is hindered by the fact that so far as human beings are concerned, poisoning is of two kinds."
"I can't agree with you in that, Socrates."
"you think the discussion ought to be carried through to the end."
"Socrates/Glaucon this, and"
"Let us now assign to fire, earth, water and air the structures which have just been given their formations in our speech."
"Let's not ask whether any of them is a doctor rather than an imitator of what doctors say, or whether any poet of the old or new school has made anyone healthy as Asclepius did, or whether he has left any students of medicine behind as Asclepius did his sons."
"We agreed that a doctor in the precise sense is a ruler of bodies, not a money maker."
"Eventually, though with difficulty, we came to an agreement."
"I say nothing about my own case and my art of midwifery and"
"I want to think back over our definition of correct education, and to hazard the suggestion now that drinking parties are actually its safeguard, provided they are properly established and conducted on the right lines."
"Are the good ones the beneficial ones, and the bad ones the harmful ones?"
"If it were in another, it would surely be contained all around by the thing it was in and would touch it in many places with many parts; but since it is one and without parts and does not partake of circularity, it cannot possibly touch in many places all around.' '"
"I call a different one."
"What will be the right instructions for the lawgiver to give you about coping with them?"
"Then the goods it mixes in are slight, but the admixture it causes of the opposite is great, and it reaches the point where it is in danger of destroying both itself and the things in it."
"Yes indeed, they do say this as well."
"The reason is that the first person to observe them was a foreigner."
"The plane tree is tall and very broad; the chaste tree, high as it is, is wonderfully shady, and since it is in full bloom, the whole place is filled with its fragrance."
"And not deceiving and deceiving are just and unjust."
"Then be careful, Hippothales, that you don't make yourself guilty of all these things through your poetry."
"So whether above or below, Axiochus, you ought to be happy, if you have lived piously.'"
"gives me more pleasure than to call Socrates to mind, whether talking about him myself, or listening to someone else do so."
"But you are aware of this point at least, that if this is to be the art we are looking for, it must be something useful."
"Can we simply say that people love the good?' '"
"We can see most clearly that those who practice justice do it unwillingly and because they lack the power to do injustice, if in our thoughts we grant to a just and an unjust person the freedom to do whatever they like."
"Even you, Socrates, could probably come to be initiated into these rites of love."
"Therefore nothing can be like the form, nor can the form be like anything else."
"A man like that who cared for donkeys or horses or cattle would at least look bad if he showed these animals kicking, butting, and biting him because of their wildness, when they had been doing none of these things when he took them over."
"If you grant me these and agree that they exist, I hope to show you the cause as a result, and to find the soul to be immortal."
"Surely you don't mean something like this: Polydamus, the pancratist, is stronger than we are; it is to his advantage to eat beef to build up his physical strength; therefore, this food is also advantageous and just for us who are weaker than he is?"
"s<U+03C5> <U+03BD><U+03BD><U+03BF><U+03B9>a (sunnoia), worry: an irrational and disturbing thought."
"There are six speeches plus a seventh delivered by an uninvited and very drunk latecomer, the Athenian statesman and general Alcibiades."
"This is exactly my own experience now."
"But just suppose that the truth had been different from what the argument has now shown it to be, and that a lawgiver, even a mediocre one, had been sufficiently bold, in the interests of the young, to tell them a lie."
"That's just what someone in that condition would do."
"Socrates sat down next to him and said, 'How wonderful it would be, dear Agathon, if the foolish were filled with wisdom simply by touching the wise."
"But if not, they felt it to pretty much the same degree."
"Look for one in whatever sort of wisdom or villainy you like, or whatever you want to call it; but you will not find it, my friend, for none exists."
"They contained on their slopes and in their valleys many populous and wealthy villages."
"Isn't the part of purveying that's done within the city about half of it called retailing?"
"You will remember, perhaps, that we said in the earlier stages of the argument that there is nothing which in itself is just one thing; and that this applies also to the active and passive factors."
"We don't want to abuse this freedom to change our subject of which we were speaking just now."
"We can't refuse to examine the doctrines of these two schools, Socrates; that couldn't be allowed."
"It's clear you've seen the light."
"It may be that gods or a number of the children of gods inhabit this kind of state: if so, the life they live there, observing these rules, is a happy one indeed."
"Do you call things like that good?'"
"Wisdom' ('phrone¯sis')."
"You see what a terrible great muddle we are in, and it is partly your fault; for you change incessantly from side to side."
"That sounds to me better than the other way of putting it."
"It must then be the case"
"If the one is as we have described it being both one and many and neither one nor many, and partaking of time must it not, because it is one, sometimes partake of being, and in turn because it is not, sometimes not partake of being?' '"
"Or did it come to be and take its start from some origin?"
"We honor him as one of the most ancient gods, and the proof of his great age is this: the parents of Love have no place in poetry or legend."
"To do this has, as I say, been enjoined upon me by the god, by means of oracles and dreams, and in every other way that a divine manifestation has ever ordered a man to do anything."
"You're asking me to do some quick thinking."
"Was it that Dionysius, after this one hearing, thought he understood well enough and really did understand, either because he had already found these principles himself or had previously learned them from others?"
"But make up your mind which of us should answer the present question."
"The original ordering of powers and honors in Atlantis was as follows."
"And yet I feel like the horse in the poem of Ibycus."
"But when the active factor finds Socrates ill, then, to begin with, it is not in strict truth the same man that it gets hold of, is it?"
"Offenses in this area are always met with anger and reproof, and the reason is clearly that this virtue is regarded as something acquired through practice and teaching."
"Only about what's just and unjust or also about the things Socrates was mentioning just now?' Try to answer them."
"Aren't they the rules of the better?"
"That's not what I asked, but whether a just person wants to outdo an unjust person but not a just one, thinking that this is what he deserves?"
"I'll try to explain."
"Megillus and I, at least, agree with your account."
"But as a matter of fact if you'll excuse my saying such a thing he is not beautiful at all, but is rather like you, snub nosed, with eyes that stick out; though these features are not quite so pronounced in him."
"Likewise, in the case of 'ze¯mio¯des' ('hurtful'), if you replace the 'z' with a 'd', as in the ancient language, it will be plain to you that the name was given to what shackles motion (doun to ion), since 'de¯mio¯des' derives from that."
"Now care in each case has the same effect; it aims at the good and the benefit of the object cared for, as you can see that horses cared for by horse breeders are benefited and become better."
"This stops us, friend, in my opinion."
"People of such and such a character are easy to persuade by speeches of such and such a sort in connection with such and such an issue for this particular reason, while people of such and such another sort are difficult to persuade for those particular reasons."
"It's the other two we'll forbid, if we can."
"And so on down the line, balancing."
"The claim that god gave divination as a gift to human folly has good support: while he is in his right mind no one engages in divination, however divinely inspired and true it may be, but only when his power of understanding is bound in sleep or by sickness, or when some sort of possession works a change in him."
"Won't they fare worse at the hands of gods and humans, as people whose actions are neither pious nor just, if they do otherwise?"
"Such objects are mostly visible, are they not?"
"The runner in a sixth race?"
"I was convicted because I lacked not words but boldness and shamelessness and the willingness to say to you what you would most gladly have heard from me, lamentations and tears and my saying and doing many things that I say are unworthy of me but that you are accustomed to hear from others."
"Then I've got something even more urgent to request."
"Callicles, though personally well disposed, is equally vehement and contemptuous in rejecting Socrates' outlook he refuses to succumb to the toils of Socratic logic."
"What is slow has its motion in one and the same place, and in relation to the things in the immediate neighborhood; in this way it generates and the offspring are swifter, as they move through space, and their motion takes the form of spatial movement."
"Are you referring to the Spartans, and Lycurgus the lawgiver?"
"They used to employ it especially on their sons, and many still use it on them nowadays when they do something wrong."
"And he began his account, my friend, in this generous manner: Would you prefer, Socrates, to have me teach you this knowledge you have been in difficulties over all this time, or to demonstrate that you possess it?"
"Now, it is quite necessary that something that neither exceeds nor is exceeded be equally matched, and if equally matched, equal.' '"
"Oh, Socrates, that's not a bad idea at all!"
"And either this is the reason they were called 'heroes' or else because they were sophists, clever speech makers (rhe¯tores) and dialecticians, skilled questioners (ero¯tan) for 'eirein' is the same as 'legein' ('to speak')."
"But men are not accustomed to use words in that manner."
"Then, if one of you disputes this and says he does care, I shall not let him go at once or leave him, but I shall question him, examine him and test him, and if I do not think he has attained the goodness that he says he has, I shall reproach him because he attaches little importance to the most important things and greater importance to inferior things."
"So I could hardly commend a better model than this to the Guardian of the in charge of education."
"And it's impossible for those who do an injustice and those who suffer it to be friends."
"that I did not bid you tell me one or two of the many pious actions but that form itself that makes all pious actions pious,"
"Or don't you think that practically even the simplest of minds supposes so?"
"And, of course, I agree."
"When a court decides to throw out evidence on the ground that the winning side has triumphed because certain witnesses have perjured themselves, and more than half the evidence is condemned, the suit lost on the strength of it should come up for retrial, and after due inquiry a ruling should be given that the false evidence was, or was not, the decisive influence on the verdict; and this ruling, whichever way it goes, will automatically settle the original action."
", I do not think you would admit that you did."
"That's how great my power in this city is!'"
"It was written after Phaedo, and Phaedrus, and also after Parmenides and Theaetetus."
"For surely he does not lie; it is not legitimate for him to do so.'"
"What, he said, about the statements we made that learning is recollection and that, if this was so, our soul must of necessity exist elsewhere before us, before it was imprisoned in the body?"
"But still I can't see clearly the thing I was in doubt about then, namely, which type we should put the sophist in."
"But perhaps, I said, there is a model of it in heaven, for anyone who wants to look at it and to make himself its citizen on the strength of what he sees."
"I mean, for example, that when the body is hot and thirsty the soul draws him to the opposite, to not drinking; when the body is hungry, to not eating, and we see a thousand other examples of the soul opposing the affections of the body."
"They'll watch over it to see that it isn't filled with the so called pleasures of the body and that it doesn't become so big and strong that it no longer does its own work but attempts to enslave and rule over the classes it isn't fitted to rule, thereby overturning everyone's whole life."
"Guided by this reasoning, he put intelligence in soul, and soul in body, and so he constructed the universe."
"So, again, if we undertake to burn something, our burning mustn't accord with every belief but with the correct one that is to say, with the one that tells us how that thing burns and is burned naturally, and what the natural tool for burning it is?"
"Once I also heard Prodicus say that death concerns neither the living nor those who have passed away.' '"
"Suppose that in one's constant efforts to serve its interests one were to mold all that is in it by transforming everything (by turning fire into water permeated by soul, for instance), instead of producing variety from a basic unity or unity from variety, then after the first or second or third stage of creation everything would be arranged in an infinite number of perpetually changing patterns."
"What about this, though?"
"Well, there is no reason why not, Socrates."
"Aeschylus talks nonsense when he claims."
"Or don't you call these men good?"
"I know nothing about such matters"
"Now surely this is utterly unreasonable; it means that the soul, when knowledge becomes present to it, knows nothing and is wholly ignorant."
"But it is absolutely not to be given to him when he's out of his mind?"
"I think it's a great absurdity for both of us to be fine, but each not; or each fine, but both not, or anything else like that."
"I was the one who made the statement that that which is not should not share either in one or in plurality."
"Or how could they exist without becoming miserable under that 'admirable' regime of justice and selfcontrol, allotting no greater share to their friends than to their enemies, and in this way 'rule' in their cities?"
": if he did less, would he not make fewer mistakes; and if he made fewer mistakes, would he not do less badly, and if he did less badly, would he not be less miserable?"
": Surely you know Charmides (son of Glaucon) who's become so good looking."
"Hence, the one paying what is due has good things being done to him?"
"And indeed Socrates, I think you must have this in mind, that we really do suppose the soul to be something of this kind; as the body is stretched and held together by the hot and the cold, the dry and the moist and other such things, and our soul is a mixture and harmony of those things when they are mixed with each other rightly and in due measure."
"The doctrine that 'these acts are absolutely unholy, an abomination in the sight of the gods, and that nothing is more revolting'."
"Phaedrus to see at that time when the souls, along with the glorious chorus were with Zeus, while others followed other gods), saw that blessed and spectacular vision and were ushered into the mystery that we may rightly call the most blessed of all."
"or of each but not of both."
"These are points that many legislators have dealt with perfectly adequately, and we should make use of their work rather than demand that the grand architect of our state should legislate on a mass of trivial details that can be handled by any run of the mill lawgiver."
"I certainly don't think so.' '"
"Or do you think the Protagorean measure isn't meant to be applied to gods as much as to men?"
"For this reason I say that Minos beyond all others has had his praises sung by Homer."
"No more worthy is the following quibble:"
"Just seeing you, Socrates, will revive him; in fact he's often before managed to rally from this condition.'"
"No: in general, the unjust man deserves just as much pity as any other sufferer."
"that provides the occasion for our dialogue."
"To some he gave the capacity for few births; to others, ravaged by the former, he gave the capacity for multiple births, and so ensured the survival of their kind. '"
"Won't he think that they are far behind?"
"Yes, but we didn't emphasize it sufficiently, for fear of what your objections have made plain, namely, that its proof would be long and difficult."
"Then is this kind of imitation concerned with something that is third from the truth, or"
"For example, if he's sick and has the power to do whatever he likes without any medical insight but with such a dictator's power that nobody criticizes him what's going to happen?"
"If we were searching for gold, we'd never willingly give way to each other, if by doing so we'd destroy our chance of finding it."
"That'll be its main preoccupation, won't it?'"
"So you suppose I don't realize that, if you're intelligent, you find a few sensible men much more frightening than a senseless crowd?'"
"How will they answer that question?"
"But if he hasn't any weapons, neither ability will help him as much as it might."
"to be a partisan of the regime in power."
"But since the best means are experience, reason, and argument. ."
"And we say that the opposite Form to the Form that achieves this result could never come to it."
"Then the dream we had has been completely fulfillled our suspicion that, with the help of some god, we had hit upon the origin and pattern of justice right at the beginning in founding our city."
"Isn't it that of medicine?"
"One of those who would be pleased to be refuted if I say anything untrue, and who would be pleased to refute anyone who says anything untrue; one who, however, wouldn't be any less pleased to be refuted than to refute."
"Finally, what is the basis of a friendship: what does the friend ultimately love in loving his friend, and how does the love of that relate to the love of the friend?"
"What you say seems to me quite right, Socrates,' he said. '"
"I think we'll find it quickest this way."
"Well, it looks as if we have to embark on a rather unfamiliar line of argument."
"You're terribly clever, Thrasymachus, but doesn't it necessarily follow that it is just to do the opposite of what you said, since the weaker are then ordered to do what is disadvantageous to the stronger?"
"or if he possessed and did little?"
"That's why we have to search around for speech, belief, and appearance, and first discover what they are, so that when they appear we see their association with that which is not clearly."
"And so it will be entirely right and proper if the state we are now founding in Crete wins among men a brilliant and glorious reputation for virtue, and if things go according to plan there is every reason to expect that, out of all the states and countries which look upon the Sun and the other gods, Magnesia will be one of the few that are well administered."
"Was Socrates nonetheless guilty as charged?"
"Writing speeches is not in itself a shameful thing."
"Haven't we also said some time ago that when the soul makes use of the body to investigate something, be it through hearing or seeing or some other sense for to investigate something through the body is to do it Phaedo through the senses it is dragged by the body to the things that are never the same, and the soul itself strays and is confused and dizzy, as if it were drunk, in so far as it is in contact with that kind of thing?"
"No one today besides you could present our city pursuing a war that reflects her true character."
"Come now, do you accuse me here of corrupting the young and making them worse deliberately or unwillingly?"
"And so when you're cultivating what belongs to you, you're not cultivating yourself."
"I want you to understand this too, and in fact it's no great wonder, if what I've just been saying is true about virtue being something in which no one can be a layman if there is to be a city."
"If he uses them rightly."
"And once he's dead, there's not a great deal we can do to help a man: all his relatives should have helped him while he was still in the land of the living, so that he could have passed his life in all possible justice and holiness; and then after death he could have escaped the penalty visited on evil deeds in the life to come."
"Well, what solid benefit are we to say it is to the state when just one lad or just one chorus of them has been properly instructed?"
"But when we were boys, my boy, the great Parmenides testified to us from start to finish, speaking in both prose and poetic rhythms,"
"If we asked 'wise in what?,' what would his answer be?"
"I shall have to retrace my steps, then, and, armed with a second starting point that also applies to these same things"
"The laws, too, are surely much harsher towards those who do evil and lie voluntarily than towards those who do so involuntarily."
"I know that this custom of eating together caused eyebrows to be raised when it was introduced in your parts of the world, but I suppose it was dictated by war or some other equally serious emergency that pressed hard on a small people in a critical situation."
"But I wonder about this: Do you really include injustice with virtue and wisdom, and justice with their opposites?"
"Surely not on those subjects you happen to know nothing about, even if Homer does speak of them."
"Whether your answer is true"
"That is why in dealing with this topic rules about orphans the law has gone to such lengths in encouraging."
"We don't have the slightest excuse for not doing as you say."
"Well then, divide the management of creatures that go on foot by assigning it to each of these two parts, using a descriptive phrase for."
"Then he smoothed out the other wrinkles, of which there were many, and he shaped the breasts, using some such tool as shoemakers have for smoothing wrinkles out of leather on the form."
"After hurrying along the wall to the Itonian gates he lived near the gates by the Amazon column we found that Axiochus had already collected his senses and was strong in body, though weak in spirit, very much in need of consolation, sobbing and groaning, again and again, as well as weeping and clapping his hands."
"Socrates makes much of the human intellect's affinity to eternal Forms of Beauty, Justice, and other normative notions, and of mathematical properties and objects, such as Oddness and Evenness and the integers Two, Three, and the rest, as well as physical forces such as Hot and Cold, all existing in a nonphysical realm accessible only to abstract thought."
"Moreover, if their women joined their campaigns, either in the same ranks or positioned in the rear to frighten the enemy and in case their help should ever be needed, I know that this would make them quite unbeatable."
"And will you say that you are right to do so, you who truly care for virtue?"
"Suppose a man were to hunt wild birds, pigeons or something, and make an aviary for them at his house and look after them there; then, in a sense, I suppose, we might say he 'has' them all the time, because of course he possesses them."
"So does each thing that gets a share get as its share the form as a whole or a part of it?"
"Is this what you mean, or something else?"
"How is it, Socrates, if law is discovery of reality, that we do not always make use of the same laws on the same matters, assuming we have discovered reality?"
"Why should we have done so?"
"Protagoras 'Protagoras,' I said, 'I don't want you to think that my motive in talking with you is anything else than to take a good hard look at things that continually perplex me."
"The dialogue must be of that date or later, and it may have been written in the Academy, which provided a fertile ground for the later development of Stoicism and scepticism."
"deceased citizens who by their physical efforts or force of personality have conspicuous and strenuous achievements to their credit, and who have lived a life of obedience to the laws, should be regarded as proper subjects for our panegyrics."
"And we can make all the others happy in the same way, so that the whole city is happy."
"And do you always know by this same means, said he, or is it rather the case that you know sometimes by this means and sometimes by another?"
"When the souls arrived at the light, they had to go to Lachesis right away."
"don't try to blame me."
"ta chre¯mata for chre¯mata"
"Then we have found, haven't we, what we were originally looking into, that parts of virtue of no small importance are by nature at odds with each other, and moreover cause those who possess them to be in this same condition?"
"Parmenides round the middle."
"They must ensure that every commodity the citizens are required to sell to the aliens is sold in the manner prescribed by law."
"and I do not mean this in the sense in which we use 'simplicity' as a euphemism for 'simple mindedness'"
"You know what I've been thinking?' '"
"And as a result, won't he exalt himself to great heights and be brimming with pretension and pride that is empty and lacks understanding?"
"And didn't Heraclitus (whom you bring in) say the same thing too, that 'the wisest of men is seen to be a monkey compared to god in wisdom and fineness and everything else?'"
"And yet I have longed after it from my youth up."
"Go on, sir, tell us what you're getting at."
"Can you name any life that despises political rule besides that of the true philosopher?"
"The object was always to find out what would be the ideal way of administering a state, and the best principles the individual."
"Therefore it would be disgraceful for us to understand the nature of things and not being as we are the wisest of the Greeks and gathered here together in this veritable hall of wisdom, in this greatest and most august house of the city itself not, I say, produce anything worthy of all this dignity, but bicker with each other as if we were the dregs of society."
"It seems to me that there is a different sort of rearing of human beings, and in turn another sort where animals are concerned."
"What are the things he said before he died?"
"Well, what do they see?"
"Or are there any others that you call things neither good nor bad?"
"Many things give us evidence for the truth of that, especially politics."
"Then if someone continuously, strenuously, and exclusively devotes himself to participation in arguments, exercising himself in them just as he did in the bodily physical training, which is their counterpart, would that be enough?"
"They placed gold statues within the temple."
"When fathers speak to their sons, they say that one must be just, as do all the others who have charge of anyone."
"But if, as I think, you favor my principles, then you ought to honor them and me in particular."
"For among animals the principle is the same as with us, and mortal nature seeks so far as possible to live forever and be immortal."
"I was still eager to listen, but when I perceived that he had really stopped I pulled myself together and, looking at Hippocrates, barely managed to say: 'Son of Apollodorus, how grateful I am to you for suggesting that I come here."
"But in what conceivable way they are good is in no way apparent to us, especially since we have discredited what are said to be the results of the statesman's art."
"this nature requires that's the kind of thing you should do now."
"So the others are neither like nor unlike nor both."
"Consequently, an attack on such gatherings in cities where they are conducted impeccably might not in itself amount to unjustified criticism, provided the critic were attacking the institution itself."
"This resistance, this shaking is called 'shivering' and 'chill,' and the experience as a whole, as well as what brings it about, has come to have the name cold."
"Or if, whether by using persuasion or not, whether as a rich or a poor man, or according to written law or contrary to it, he does what is not to the benefit of the citize or what is to their benefit, must that be the criterion, and must it have to do with these things the truest criterion of correct government of a city, the one according to which the wise and good man will govern the interests of the ruled?"
"So, by using this hypothesis, I am willing to tell you what results with regard to inscribing it in the circle that is, whether it is impossible or not.'"
"Socrates, you said earlier that virtue cannot be taught, but now you are arguing the very opposite and have attempted to show that everything is knowledge justice, temperance, courage in Protagoras which case"
"Right, my friend: how could anyone begin from false belief and get to even a small part of the truth, and so acquire wisdom?"
"Or are names only a way of getting people to learn things, and must investigation and discovery be undertaken in some different way?"
"But if we can clearly conceive now that this is the case, then pleasure has lost its bid for victory."
"Clearly what's done willingly doesn't happen unwillingly."
"I have heard Pericles and many other great orators, and I have admired their speeches."
"The minds of all humankind were in bondage: so many, such great and warlike, peoples had the realm of Persia enslaved. '"
"Necessarily, then, there occur at that time cases of destruction of other living creatures on a very large scale, and humankind itself survives only in small numbers."
"Whether my eagerness was right and we accomplished anything we shall,"
"This much is obvious, Socrates, that it's more bent upon giving pleasure and upon gratifying the spectators."
"And the next law, which should be adopted quite ungrudgingly, will run as follows:"
"But those who now write Arts of Rhetoric we were just discussing them are cunning people: they hide the fact that they know very well everything about the soul."
"So, as I say, it's a fine thing you came now."
"If that is how they sing, they will give themselves harmless pleasure, and at the same time stimulate the younger generation to adopt virtuous customs with the proper enthusiasm."
"Poros means 'way,' 'resource.'"
"Socrates, we have come across an amazing difference between the sciences, as far as precision is concerned."
"Being no teller of fables myself, I took the stories I knew and had at hand, the fables of Aesop, and I versified the first ones I came across."
"Well, then, don't you think the properties we've enumerated are compatible with one another and that each is necessary to a soul that is to have an adequate and complete grasp of that which is?"
"Nevertheless, though I'm only one person, I don't agree with you."
"Well then, let that be our agenda: you have to direct your efforts to understanding the argument, while I direct mine to expounding it as clearly as I can."
"So it seems, anyway."
"come to men by nature but are acquired or do you think either of these comes by nature?"
"It does take both hands."
"Shall we weave his name together from start to finish and tie it up the way we did before?"
"How do they corrupt the other workers?"
"Matters then had come to this, in so short a time."
"Well, what sort of knowledge would we acquire if we went about it in the right way?"
"Well then, aren't bad things, pains, present in men who feel pain?"
"The 'Prayers' is the embassy scene in which Odysseus, Phoenix, and Ajax plead with Achilles to give up his anger and return to the fighting."
"After all, 'lord' ('anax') and 'possessor' ('hekto¯r') signify pretty much the same, since both are names for a king."
"And of the fact that they go there of their own accord, for the sake of the benefit they will receive after the initial stages?"
"In noble families, obviously."
"Just as for the rest of the soul the direction of wisdom makes things beneficial, but harmful if directed by folly, so in these cases, if the soul uses and directs them right it makes them beneficial, but bad use makes them harmful?"
"And have you heard about how Periander (son of Cypselus) ruled in Corinth?"
"That's why I was so quick to agree to your assignment yesterday."
"Towards the interior, canals were cut in straight lines from the city over the plain a hundred feet broad at most and these emptied their waters into the Great Canal facing the sea."
"if, as he gets older and continues writing speeches of the sort he is composing now, he makes everyone who has ever attempted to compose a speech seem like a child in comparison."
"Well, then, I divine that during the time that he didn't know the truth, he'd honor his father, mother, and the rest of his supposed family more than he would the flatterers, that he'd pay greater attention to their needs, be less likely to treat them lawlessly in word or deed, and be more likely to obey them than the flatterers in any matters of importance."
"Certainly there is,' he said. '"
"One policy is that adopted by the Scythians and Persians, as well as by the Carthaginians, Celts, Iberians and Thracians belligerent races, all of them."
"Then you must know that at some point later in the ode he says: Nor is Pittacus' proverb in tune however wise a man he was."
"You're doing a beautiful job, Phaedrus,' said Agathon. '"
"Assent and dissent, wanting to have something and rejecting it, taking something and pushing it away?"
"For instance, in the case of health, there is no other art related to the past, the present, and the future except that of medicine, which, although it is a single art, surveys what is, what was, and what is likely to be in the future."
"Apparently a reference to the formulaic expression, 'wild and not just,' which occurs three times in the Odyssey (vi."
"Gorgias is a friend of mine, so he'll give us a presentation now, if you see fit, or else some other time, if you like."
"They say that it is knowledge of the good as if we understood what they're speaking about when they utter the word 'good.'"
"That's precisely what he'll do."
"Away, then, with all such nonsense!"
"And this is exactly what happened to me just now: at the."
"even if he should be found in your own house he will suffer nothing beyond what you have said."
"Do follow my advice, and do not act differently."
"Isn't this necessary too, that there be nothing outside the one and the others?' '"
"See Parmenides, frg."
"I will not legislate so as to make this an involuntary act of injustice."
"Or what do you think?"
"As to your question about the wisdom of the pair, it is marvelous, Crito!"
"I do not think I will stay here dishonored, and pile up riches and wealth for you."
"So then the Form of the Even will never come to three?"
"So surely, given they're the sort of beings we've admitted, it's absolutely impossible to agree that they do anything out of sloth and self indulgence."
"And it's our needs, it seems, that will create it."
"Reading Burnet's text, but replacing his interrogation mark at with a comma, on the assumption that there are two rather than three problems addressed."
"What now appears best to me I will try to explain in all frankness and set it forth with just and impartial reasoning."
"What about the many doubles?"
": Is it possible to see with anything other than eyes?"
"If he steps out of his own form, mustn't he either change himself or be changed by something else?"
"that one lived to a ripe old age, and the other much longer."
"And since it had no need to catch hold of or fend off anything, the god thought that it would be pointless to attach hands to it."
"But it seems that the derivative ones were able to accomplish this by means of the primary ones."
"That would yield 'three types', as the Athenian goes on to say here."
"all three: reason, truth, and pleasure."
"The dialogue begins abruptly, without stage setting preliminaries of the sort we find in the 'Socratic' dialogues, and with no context of any kind being provided for the conversation."
"there was so little intelligen in his wisdom."
"Well then, insofar as nothing comes to be older or younger than a different thing, owing to their always differing from each other by an equal number, the one would not come to be older or younger than the others, and they would not come to be older or younger than it."
"Should we discuss this alone or in the presence of others?' '"
"all that kind of reality, and"
"You will hear the truth about Love, and the words and phrasing will take care of themselves.'"
"No one knows whether death may not be the greatest of all blessings for a man, yet men fear it as if they knew that it is the greatest of evils."
"For I notice that whenever the city lays its hands on one of its politicians because he does what's unjust, they resent it and complain indignantly that they're suffering terrible things."
"This, then, is the source of our desire to love each other."
"Nor must mothers, believing bad stories about the gods wandering at night in the shapes of strangers from foreign lands, terrify their children with them."
"Then let's say that the hunting of tame animals falls into two parts."
"Would you prefer us to leave the entire distribution to his discretion and let him deal with the details of each individual case?"
"Just go on and start discussing with him.' '"
"Certainly not, if you ask my view."
"But when children play the right games from the beginning and absorb lawfulness from music and poetry, it follows them in everything and fosters their growth, correcting anything in the city that may have gone wrong before in other words, the very opposite of what happens where the games are lawless."
"They must dig ditches wherever necessary, and excavate trenches and erect fortifications to check any attempt to harm the land and the livestock."
"What else would law be, Socrates, but what is accepted?"
"he starts to speak, I am beside myself: my heart starts leaping in my chest, the tears come streaming down my face, even the frenzied Corybant seem sane compared to me and, let me tell you, I am not alone."
"the very thing from which the heroes sprang."
"Now, remember, in addition to these points, what you said in your speech about what it is that Love loves."
"Do you mean that they believe the bad things to be good, or that they know they are bad and nevertheless desire them?"
"The officials are to settle the case within three days."
"In your case, on the other hand, as in that of others, no sooner have you achieved literacy and all the other resources that cities require, than there again, after the usual number of years, comes the heavenly flood."
"Nonetheless, they're the sort he employs."
"But I'm afraid that this word 'always' may trip us up."
"Book Socrates himself alludes to this famous speech, claiming that its true author was none other than Aspasia, Pericles' intellectually accomplished mistress."
"And what division is more important than the one between ignorance and knowledge?"
"At this point they seemed to me to be losing enthusiasm for the argument, so I tried a different approach, and I said, 'What would you guess are the main sorts of subjects that a philosopher needs to learn, since he doesn't need to learn them all, or even a lot of them?'"
"The fourth kind of animal, the kind that lives in water, came from those men who were without question the most stupid and ignorant of all."
"So they do not say or do just anything."
"What's to stop me, Socrates?"
"But thirst is, once again, a destruction and pain, while the process that fills what is dried out with liquid is pleasure?"
"Yes, for it's the opposite of the one that doctors perform on the body."
"Therefore, since it doesn't partake of one measure or many or few, and since it doesn't partake of the same at all, it will, as it seems, never be equal to itself or another; nor again will it be greater or less than itself or another.'"
"He really likes to listen, Socrates."
"You'll understand it more easily after the following preamble."
"There may not be many examples of it, except the case of sight."
"That may be because at such times a state of calm becomes pleasant enough to content them."
"So that what gives truth to the things known and the power to know to the knower is the form of the good."
"It isn't possible, for we'll be giving just orders to just people."
"So as it stands we think that whoever possesses the most valuable things is the wealthiest person?' '"
"Furthermore, the intending electors ought to have been well brought up in law abiding habits, so as to be able to approve or disapprove of the candidates for the right reasons and elect or reject them according to their deserts."
"Such, to conclude, was the character of this people and such was their life generation after generation as they directed the life of their city and of Greece with justice."
"After all, what is strained (diatto¯menon) and filtered (e¯thoumenon) is like a spring, and the name 'Tethys' is a compound of these two names."
"I think it is made to be beneficial, but sometimes it does harm, too, if the law is made badly."
"If we compare them with the era before the flood and with the modern world, we shall have to say that the many generations which lived in that way were inevitably unskilled and ignorant of techniques in general, and particularly of the military devices used on land and sea nowadays."
"And the bad can't be friend to the good.'"
"After all, this is the object of the exercise I'm not going through all this simply for the story."
"Even the seven clearest have only voice; no sort of account whatever can be given of them."
"On the contrary, she relented, came to the rescue, and released the Greeks from slavery by coming to their aid herself, with the result that they remained free until they once more enslaved themselves."
"Their fame for the beauty of their bodies and for the variety and range of their mental and spiritual qualities spread through all of Asia and all of Europe."
"For I know that if we could get clear on that, then we would be able to settle the question about which we both have had much to say, I that virtue cannot be taught, you that it can. '"
"Now do you call 'sum' and 'whole' the same thing or different things?"
"But tell me, what is this service to the gods?"
"Now, for a runaway not to succeed in running away, but to be caught in the open, is sheer folly from the start and inevitably makes men even more hostile than they were before, for on top of everything else"
"But that's nonsense."
"He will say that in the life of selfcontrol the pleasures outweigh the pains, and in the licentious life the pains exceed the pleasures, in point of size, number and frequency."
"If anyone who succumbs to such misfortune is childless, the relatives of the exile, as far as the children of the cousins on both the male and female side, must hold a meeting, and in consultation with the Guardians of the appoint an heir for this property, the th in the state."
"Should we say this is so"
"The ones concerned with war that you mentioned."
"You hold that each one of us is either 'conqueror of' or 'conquered by' himself: are we to say that the same holds good of household, village and state?"
"Taking, therefore, this argument as our guide, we shall find that the man who means to be happy should not seek simply to be wealthy, but to be wealthy in a way consistent with justice and self control."
"however much he hates Lysias, would reproach him for being a writer?"
"And because you've seen the truth about fine, just, and good things, you'll know each image for what it is and also that of which it is the image."
"I think she'd be wondering what this Alcibiades had up his sleeve to think of competing against Artaxerxes."
"at night in cities inspire fear in the wicked, whether citizens or enemies, but by the just and the virtuous they are honored and admired; they benefit themselves and are a blessing to the entire state."
"Do carry on the way you've begun, and take care not to be ashamed."
"Doesn't Homer himself suggest a very good explanation when he says He alone defended their city and long walls?"
"of birth, he must always keep himself from striking anyone old enough to have been his parent."
"If that is so, do you think that we are on an equal footing as regards the right, and that whatever we do to you it is right for you to do to us?"
"So this single law should apply to all cases of defamation: no one is to defame anybody."
"So then, Simmias, our souls also existed apart from the body before they took on human form, and they had intelligence."
"There is no need for one as far as that goes, for hardly anything could resist destruction if the deathless, which lasts forever, would admit destruction."
"That isn't most people's opinion."
"When you pour in the wine it seethes furiously, but once dilute it with the god of the teetotalers, and you have a splendid combination which will make you a good and reasonable drink."
"And the readiness of your advisers implies that they have knowledge, while your casting votes implies that the advisers do not have knowledge."
"Yet I have made many speeches about virtue before large audiences on a thousand occasions, very good speeches as I thought, but now I cannot even say what it is."
"He's afraid to arouse his appetites for spending or to call on them as allies to obtain victory, so he fights like an oligarch, with only a few of his resources."
"Tell me, what is it?"
"And who is the teacher here?' '"
"p<U+03C1>a t<U+03B7><U+03C2> (praiote¯s), even temper: suppression of the impulse caused by anger; an harmonious blend of the soul."
"The instant seems to signify something such that changing occurs from it to each of two states."
"Are you asking me what craft I say it is?"
"First, speaking of the city, would you say that a tyrannical city is free or enslaved?"
"Could we accept an art of speaking presented in any other terms?'"
"We want them to know that they will give us no special pleasure by singing dirges and wailing over us."
"What is this,' he said, 'you strange fellows."
"Or isn't it necessary, if something is in time, that it always come to be older than itself?' 'Necessarily.' '"
"When he has nothing to say in reply, but laughs anyway, he'll be laughing at himself, and he'll be a laughingstock to those around."
"That's the praise of military life that ought, in my view, to ring in a young man's ears."
"Shall we say that, or what?"
"You hold that knowledge is perception?."
"We must increase it in size and fill it with a multitude of things that go beyond what is necessary for a city hunters, for example, and artists or imitators, many of whom work with shapes and colors, many with music."
"I think you must Meno face the same question from the beginning, my dear Meno, namely, what is virtue, if every action performed with a part of virtue is virtue?"
"It's for your sake that we'll be trying to refute what Parmenides said if we can do it."
"Everyone is to have the same friends and enemies as the state."
"That's absolutely right, as long as we admit that some kinds will blend with each other and some won't."
"For probably the best possible way to speak consists in using names all (or most) of which are like the things they name (that is, are appropriate to them), while the worst is to use the opposite kind of names."
"It certainly appears so.' '"
"But to honor a man with hymns and panegyrics during his lifetime is to invite trouble: we must wait until he has come to the end of the course after running the race of life successfully."
"For the heart of the matter is that of recognizing or failing to recognize who is happy and who is not."
"But when someone makes that which is the same appear different in just any old way, or vice versa, or when he makes what's large appear small or something that's similar appear dissimilar well, if someone enjoys constantly trotting out contraries like that in discussion"
"At any rate, it certainly seems to be in no state at all.' '"
"the whole of nature (phusis), would be 'nature sustainer' ('phuseche¯')."
"I'm certain that Cratylus was right when he said that I'm no Hermogenes then, since I'm no good at devising speeches."
"We may suppose that soul fashions living things out of it which (like the other kinds of living things) are for the most part characterized by that substance, but which also possess smaller amounts of the other kinds in order to bond them together."
"Clinias' chronology is a trifle confused."
"If something were to be part of many, in which it itself is, it will, of course, be both part of itself, which is impossible, and of each one of the others, if in fact it is part of all of them."
"If the figwood is really more appropriate than the gold,' the man will say, 'wouldn't it be finer?"
"And in the end, as you know, they take no notice of the laws, whether written or unwritten, in order to avoid having any master at all."
"Do not the gods have the same experience, if indeed they are at odds with each other about the just and the unjust, as your argument maintains?"
"For it could not, in appearance, shift from greater to less, until it seems to come to the state in between, and this would be an appearance of equality.' '"
"Would you have wanted to learn or work out something that you thought you understood?"
"As for the other thing, the presentation, let him put that on another time, as you suggest."
"Because it would then be in that in that same thing it is in.'"
"Perhaps he would if he were to bear in mind this further point, that anyone who handles law in the way we are now, is tutoring the citizens, not imposing laws on them."
"Instead, wouldn't he feel, with Homer, that he'd much prefer to 'work the earth as a serf to another, one without possessions,' and go through any sufferings, rather than share their opinions and live as they do?"
"You've omitted these and a host of other, similar facts from your charge."
"The name certainly seems to put Anaxagoras in an awkward position."
"So let's review the thesis we argued for the existence of gods against the non believers: was it cogent or feeble?"
"Then, if man and city are alike, mustn't the same structure be in him too?"
"Located on each side of the central race course were quarters for the palace guard."
"Well, then, sir, what necessities, divine rather than the other sort, are relevant to these studies?."
"Likewise, good men announce to their cities the likely outcome of events and"
"but I simply, naively and perhaps foolishly cling to this, that nothing else makes it beautiful other than the presence of, or the sharing in, or however you may describe its relationship to that Beautiful"
"Similarly, he must refrain from striking a foreigner, whether the latter is a long established resident or a recent immigrant."
"Do not let Crito persuade you, rather than us, to do what he says."
"You see my point, I take it."
"Or parts as in the parts of gold, where there is no difference, except for size, between parts or between the parts and the whole?' '"
"You answer us then, since that's what you want."
"The overheated choral poems known as dithyrambs (see d) were written in lyric meters."
"They are, my son very crude people."
"How wonderfully well he puts that."
"Why don't you either join us in praising some point or other in what he said, or else put something to the test, if it seems to you anything was not well said especially since we who most claim to have a share in the practice of philosophy are now left to ourselves?"
"If someone then were to point at one of them and ask you, 'What is it?,' your safest answer by far, with respect to truth, would be to say, 'gold,' but never 'triangle' or any of the other shapes that come to be in the gold, as though it is these, because they change even while you're making the statement."
"but do you think that there are no teachers of virtue?"
"The reason there is so much eagerness to see the plain where truth stands is that this pasture has the grass that is the right food for the best part of the soul, and it is the nature of the wings that lift up the soul to be nourished by it."
"Hear what more I have to say, for we should also fully explore the arguments that are opposed to the ones Glaucon gave, the ones that praise justice and find fault with injustice, so that what I take to be his intention may be clearer."
"An analogy might be drawn from the practice of writing teachers, who sketch the letters faintly with a pen in workbooks for their beginning students and have them write the letters over the patterns they have drawn."
"Yes, from a great many."
"To anyone who has followed this discourse and digression it will be clear that if Dionysius or anyone else whether more or less able than he has written concerning the first and highest principles of nature, he has not properly heard or understood anything of what he has written about; otherwise he would have respected these principles as I do, and would not have dared to give them this discordant and unseemly publicity."
"We must accept what has happened as we would the fall of the dice, and then arrange our affairs in whatever way reason determines to be best."
"And we'll declare that what the Muses say is right."
"But let's consider a pattern that will exhibit them more clearly."
"They enjoy hearing those being questioned who think they are wise, but are not."
"So we'll learn what is by nature purest in them."
"Suppose anyone is found inquiring into steersmanship and seafaring, or health and truth in the doctor's art, in relation to winds and heat and cold, above and beyond the written rules, and making clever speculations of any kind in relation to such things."
"What you say is very true, said Simmias and Cebes together."
"I still don't understand."
"Alternatively, if it is the same as the letters, it must be equally knowable with them?"
"For if they are informed they will not choose to give advice which is not good."
"so I want to tell you what I said."
"Even though they do what they see fit?"
"Surely your meeting is inconsistent with your voting and your voting with the readiness of your advisers?"
"I think you're looking for an answer that says the fine is the sort of thing that will never be seen to be foul for anyone, anywhere, at any time."
"Well then, Gorgias, let me tell you what surprises me in the things you've said."
"And this, of course, is the Heavenly Love of the heavenly goddess."
"Well, what should I say?"
"To that end, the Guardians of the must not simply be regarded as guardians of those whom it is easy to keep from wickedness and crime thanks to their good birth and education."
"Or can you think of another type of constitution"
"He started talking about Phoroneus the first human being, it is said and about Niobe, and then he told the story of how Deucalion and Pyrrha survived the flood."
"It isn't the craft of putting sight into the soul."
"Aristodemus replied to this, 'Socrates, I am afraid Homer's description is bound to fit me better than yours."
"About how big is it, Socrates?"
"Now that we've decided to divide the citizens into twelve sections, we should try to realize (after all, it's clear enough)"
"And we can probably add a third and even better judge the one who will take this single quarrelling family in hand and reconcile its members, without killing any of them; by laying down regulations to guide them in the future, he will be able to ensure that they remain on friendly terms with each other."
"And oughtn't the other to be very willing to show himself off?"
"But, he said, do you agree that the words of the statement '"
"And if both, then each."
"Within his own patrimony and in his own city, each of the ten kings held power over the inhabitants and over most of the laws, and he could punish or put to death whomever he wished."
"A man who is easily persuaded by these words of exhortation will give us no trouble; but stubborn people, who ignore the preamble, ought to be ready to take more notice of the following regulations:."
"The passage is confusingly written."
"If the assessment is challenged, the assessment of the relatives on the male side must be taken as final."
"And to me you appeared then to think that in taking away a part you had left behind the rest as in its turn a single class, consisting of all of them, because you had the same name, 'animals', to apply to them all."
"That seems indisputable, Socrates."
"We don't think so. '"
"Well, this, then, they say, is why the two things occur."
"paid hunter of rich and distinguished young men."
"But in fact nothing that is belongs to it; for then, by partaking of that, it would partake of being.' '"
"But since I know what your nature is and I know, too, that even without arguments from us it will tend in the direction that it's pulled toward now, I'll let the issue go."
"Greek andreia, literally 'manliness'."
"Socrates/Glaucon/Adeimantus"
"<U+03BB><U+03B7> <U+03B8>e<U+03B9>a (ale¯theia), truth, veracity: the correct state expressed in affirmation and denial; knowledge of truths."
"But beauty was radiant."
"The bridegroom must regard one of the two homes included in the lot as the nest in which he will bring up his brood of young; here he must be married, after leaving his father and mother, and here he must make his home and become the breadwinner for himself and his children."
"we must give our constant attention and obedience to our leader, submitting to his guidance even in tiny details."
"Alcibiades ing, you've been seeing some teacher who taught you how to tell the difference between the more just"
"These, then, are the many ways in which the best nature which is already rare enough, as we said is destroyed and corrupted, so that it cannot follow the best pursuits."
"This very attitude is to me an indication that the dead have some perception of what is going on here; for superior minds divine that this is so, while those of no account deny it; and of these two the intimations of good men are the more worthy of credence."
"Consequently, though one might say something about these names, one mustn't push them too far."
"A perfectly correct assumption, sir."
"This leads to a lengthy defense of the basic philosophical method of looking to unity in plurality in coming to understand the nature of anything and to a metaphysical division (not easy to understand) of 'everything that actually exists now in the universe' into four basic categories: the 'unlimited', 'limit', the 'mixture' of these two, and the 'cause' of the mixture."
"He most certainly would."
"You see, a reckless lack of respect for one's betters is effrontery of peculiar viciousness, which springs from a freedom from inhibitions that has gone much too far."
"I'd say that they're about even and odd, however many of each there might be."
"Let's go back again to the beginning to see whether things will appear the same to us as they do now, or different.' '"
"You will spend your time ingratiating yourself with all men, and be at their beck and call."
"Our customs, then, provide for only one honorable way of taking a man as a lover."
"Heavy and light can be most clearly explained if we examine them in conjunction with what we call above and below."
"And is fighting a war so easy that a farmer or a cobbler or any other craftsman can be a soldier at the same time?"
"How and by what argument, my dear Cebes, can we propitiate Cadmus?"
"They were indeed in the condition one would expect thoroughly god forsaken things to be in."
"So we can say that exercising very young children by keeping them in motion contributes a great deal towards the perfection of one aspect of the soul's virtue."
"When I was asked if the courageous are confident, I agreed."
"And you would loudly exclaim that you do not know how else each thing can come to be except by sharing in the particular reality in which it shares, and in these cases you do not know of any other cause of becoming two except by sharing in Twoness, and that the things that are to be two must share in this, as that which is to be one must share in Oneness, and you would dismiss these additions and divisions and other such subtleties, and leave them to those wiser than yourself to answer."
"If a freedman disobeys these regulations and is taken to court and convicted, he must be punished by death and his property confiscated by the state."
"And if the ruler catches someone else telling falsehoods in the city"
"None of the mountain ranges that exist today can compare with them."
"Our next task is to enumerate these one by one, mentioning what penalty each should attract and to which court it should be assigned."
"That was all nonsense just now when I was pretending that you were going to allow me to keep my coat on, and not use compulsion like the Spartans."
"But that argument may strike you as captious, Sisyphus, put forward not with a view to the truth of the matter, but merely as a debating point."
"Of this man I think you would say that there was no one living who was more scientific.' '"
"Now go on and try to tell me this: What are the measurers doing when they decide about what's large and what's small?"
"The money is actually the least of my concerns, but I think what he's up to is very risky."
"He says that man is 'the measure of all things,' and that things are to me as they appear to me, and are to you as they appear to you."
"But according to my story, a lover does not seek the half or the whole, unless, my friend, it turns out to be good as well."
"Therefore that's the way that well given names are given."
"I must follow your advice."
"both when they recite his poetry and when they speak about it"
", if this is true, we must consider what the consequences are."
"You can count me among the convinced as well, Adeimantus said."
"Let's put them under the heading of production."
"Theirs is a private conversation, apparently with no others present (as in Euthyphro)."
"In fact, he argues with me about these things, and other things, too, and refuses to place me with anyone."
"How, then, will they be most beneficial?"
"You, Socrates, must not insist on that precise, excessively brief form of discussion if it does not suit Protagoras, but rather allow free rein to the speeches, so that they might communicate to us more impressively and elegantly."
"Not only here, but elsewhere, too."
"The two statements are dissonant; they are not in harmony with one another."
"There were gymnasia for men on each of the two ring islands and tracks for horses were set apart as well."
"What about not willing, not wishing, and not having an appetite?"
"For what when added to anything whether to a stone or a plank or a man or a god or any action or any lesson anything gets to be fine?"
"Which life would you choose, Glaucon?"
"Think about what a man like that, taken captive among these people, could say in his defense, if somebody were to accuse him and say, 'Children, this man has worked many great evils on you, yes, on you."
"But if they have natures like that, Glaucon, won't they be savage to each other and to the rest of the citizens?"
"And there you're right."
"And of the exploits for the deliverance of Greece that at Plataea was, I maintain, the third, both in number and in valor at last an effort shared by both the Lacedaemonians and the Athenians. '"
"So I shook him and whispered: 'Socrates, are you asleep?' '"
"Indeed, whenever a god wishes a city to become successful, he places good men in it, and whenever a city is slated to fail, the god takes the good men away from that city."
"See whether the start of our inquiry is adequately stated, and try to answer what I ask you in the way you think best."
"It appears, moreover, that if someone were to take a person who knew nothing about riding a horse and who owned horses which were useless to him, and then made him knowledgeable about horses, he would have made him at the same time wealthier too, since he has taken what was previously useless to this man and made it useful."
"Which of these, now, is the most admirable?"
"We consider the life of one who has brought disgrace on his own family no life, and we think that no one, human being or god, is his friend, either on the earth or beneath it after his death. ''"
"But I think you'll admit that some of those which are are said by themselves, but some are always said in relation to other things."
"The same is true of me where you're concerned, Socrates:"
"No, you are perfectly right."
"The living thing is thus nourished by an abundance of like parts, and so made to grow big."
"It follows that whoever wants to acquire the art of rhetoric must first make a systematic division and grasp the particular character of each of these two kinds of thing, both the kind where most people wander in different directions and the kind where they do not."
"You see it's not because you're a master of knowledge about Homer that you can say what you say, but because of a divine gift, because you are possessed."
"What is this, and what do you do here?' '"
"And what of this the matter of whether we should learn any one of these or not?"
"The one who knows how can do what he should, if and when he should, but the one who doesn't know how can't?"
"On some subjects, the antiquity of these works makes them difficult to criticize, whatever their influence good or bad on their audience; but when it comes to the respect and attention due to parents, I for one shall never recommend them either as a good influence or as a statement of the honest truth."
"Isn't it the same way in geometry?"
"Or do we think that part of us, whatever it is, that is concerned with justice and injustice, is inferior to the body?"
"How can you even think of a comparison here, Socrates?"
"Then the man who conducts the examination correctly will examine the doctor in those matters in which he is a medical man, namely health and disease.' '"
"It was, indeed,' he said. '"
"So now is the time for you to give us your advice, not only about this form of instruction whether you think it should be learned or"
"No one whose thoughts are truly directed towards the things that are, Adeimantus, has the leisure to look down at human affairs or to be filled with envy and hatred by competing with people."
"I have met with many and many a Heracles and Theseus in my time, mighty men of words; and they have well battered me."
"As I said earlier, love is, like everything else, complex: considered simply in itself, it is neither honorable nor a disgrace"
"Orators, for instance, are bound to know, or at least to think they know, how to give us advice on various topics whether it is about war and peace, or about the construction of walls or the equipment of harbors."
"Nor will it be the same as itself.' '"
"If a woman misbehaves and her name is posted up, and she fails to win the day in court, the same regulations are to apply to her too: she must be excluded from female processions and distinctions, and be forbidden to attend weddings and parties celebrating the birth of children."
"The passage continues with the words Glaucon quotes below at a. Glaucon/Socrates/Adeimantus away his reputation, for a reputation for justice would bring him honor and rewards, so that it wouldn't be clear whether he is just for the sake of justice itself or for the sake of those honors and rewards."
"I strongly suspect you have the speech itself."
"But the middle is equidistant from the extremities otherwise, it wouldn't be a middle.' '"
"The result is that I have got pretty well the whole discussion in writing."
"I stayed only as a favor to our noble colleague Callias.'"
"Isn't a man who has learned a particular subject the sort of man his knowledge makes him?"
"Now, what conclusion does my argument lead to?"
"All these are familiar Socratic ideas, presented in an unusually bald and unattractive format."
"As the first I count the unlimited, limit as the second, afterwards in third place comes the being which is mixed and generated out of those two."
"Leontius, the son of Aglaion, was going up from the Piraeus along the outside of the North Wall when he saw some corpses lying at the executioner's feet."
"Now we must apply the same point to our belly."
"First of all, immediately after the voting in each case, and by proclamation of a herald in the hearing of the judges, the official who has pronounced sentence should assign all the property of the convicted party, except the minimum he must retain, to the successful prosecutor."
"Now if doing what's unjust is in fact more shameful than suffering it, wouldn't it be so either because it is more painful and surpasses the other in pain, or because it surpasses it in badness, or both?"
"Now as earth like parts penetrate the area around the tiny vessels that act as testers for the tongue and reach down to the heart, they impact upon the moist, soft flesh of the tongue and are melted away."
"And since it is not the wicked judgment, is it not quite obvious by now that it is the admirable, given that law is judgment?"
"Yes, you're quite correct, Socrates."
"Do we think with our blood, or air, or fire, or none of these, and does the brain provide our senses of hearing and sight and smell, from which come memory and opinion, and from memory and opinion which has become stable, comes knowledge?"
"Thousands indeed, said Simmias."
"He was directly behind me, but I have no idea where he is now.'"
"The pollution is the same if you knowingly keep company with such a man and do not cleanse yourself and him by bringing him to justice."
"He argues instead that the whole collective decision procedure (offering advice, listening to advice, and deciding the question by voting) is absurd."
"But the kind that's done by striking with hooks or three pronged spears is different, and we should call it by one word, strike hunting."
"You do not think then that the sophists are teachers?"
"Besides, neither your city nor Sparta would choose me for a general."
"Theages is his name, Socrates."
"They will seek your company, and think of you as their friend; but they will loathe themselves, and seek refuge from themselves in philosophy, in the hope that they may thereby become different people and be rid forever of the men that they once were."
": see eg Aeschylus, Persians."
"Let's try to pin down just why these changes took place, if we can; then perhaps we shall discover how the various systems took root and developed."
"But what sort of a notion is that?"
"Yet if it is, on the other hand, of more measures or fewer, it would have as many parts as measures; and thus, again, it will be no longer one, but just as many as are its measures.'"
"The Umpires should number three, chosen by lot from the twenty candidates who head the poll, and duly sanctioned by the scrutineers."
"Clinias, Megillus, and the Athenian visitor reconvene at some unspecified time after their conversation in the."
"To the one that controls the art of persuasion and speaking."
"What you did show next"
"We said that the gods took pity on us and gave us Apollo and the Muses as companions and leaders of our choruses; and if we can cast our minds back, we said that their third gift to us was Dionysus."
"Instead, they proceeded to fuse them together with copious rivets so small as to be invisible, thereby making each body a unit made up of all the components."
"Or when they're doing something?"
"the labor is painful."
"More compulsory than anything."
"And such things are what the soul longs for, as the giver of the name, 'neoesis' expressed, for the ancient name wasn't 'noe¯sis'"
"So I can't at all agree with Thrasymachus that justice is the advantage of the stronger"
"Isn't this how it stands, Protagoras?'"
"Therefore, using persuasion in one place and force in another, we'll outdo others without paying a penalty. '"
"You appreciate that these are two distinct things, and that 'volume' is a third?"
"And in its turn the soul that is too full of reserve and has no admixture of courageous initiative, and is reproduced over many generations in this way, by nature grows more sluggish than is timely"
"Surely what you say is extraordinary, if those who mend old sandals and restore clothes would Meno be found out within the month if they returned the clothes and sandals in a worse state than they received them; if they did this they would soon die of starvation, but the whole of Greece has not noticed for forty years that Protagoras corrupts those who frequent him and sends them away in a worse moral condition than he received them."
"But I don't think they blame the real cause, Socrates, for if old age were really the cause, I should have suffered in the same way and so should everyone else of my age."
"If the former do not exist, neither do the latter?"
"The Athenians killed Androgeos, son of Minos, King of Crete, who then exacted a tribute of seven girls and seven boys as victims for the Minotaur, a Cretan monster."
