"x"
"This pleasure can scarcely be felt unalloyed, and without any mental conflict."
"And although they are inwardly convinced of their weakness, and although God does not demand certain duties of them that they prescribe for themselves (since they hinder their serving Him), they cannot help preferring their imagination to their mind and submitting to certain confused opinions that frighten them and make them fall into error, rather than to the evidence of reason, which reassures them and returns them to the true path of their salvation."
"From this kind of knowledge arises pleasure accompanied by the idea of God as cause, that is (Def. of the Emotions, vi.), the love of God; not in so far as we imagine him as present (V. xxix.), but in so far as we understand him to be eternal; this is what I call the intellectual love of God."
"Consequently, we are inclined to believe that they possess good to some extent when it is enjoyed by their friends, though they do not immediately possess it themselves."
"I say only that, if they admit only obvious principles and if they reason deductively on these principles, then will they discover the same truths we learn in the Gospel; because it is the same Wisdom that speaks immediately through itself to those who discover truth in the evidence of arguments that speaks through the Sacred Scriptures to those who interpret them well."
"le Clerc had inserted in his Select Library an extract from the Intellectual System of the late Mr. Cudworth, and had explained therein certain 'plastic natures' which this admirable author applied to the formation of animals."
"For God can act only according to this reason; He depends on it in a sense He has to consult and follow it."
"But camels, who like muddy water, and animals that enjoy themselves in mud would be of a different opinion."
"The soul is not spread through all parts of the body, in order to give life and movement to it, as the imagination might have it; and the body does not become capable of sensation through its union with the mind, as our false and misleading senses seem to convince us."
"and note) that the power of the mind, whereby it imagines and remembers things, also depends on the fact, that it involves the actual existence of the body."
"But the soul, however it might sense itself, does not know either itself or its modifications, the soul which is a particular being, a very limited and imperfect being."
"Herr Otto Sperling, who is well known for various learned writings, but has many more in readiness to appear, in a special dissertation has treated the question of this Teutates, God of the Celts."
"But because heaviness and lightness can belong to a body either wholly or in part, he concludes that there are still two other elements or simple bodies, of which one is partly light and the other partly heavy, namely, water and air."
"Ultro cnim terra fructificat primum hcrbam; dcindc spicam."
"But if we suppose an inequality in the increase or decrease of the simple motions, then no matter what this inequality may be, it will always be easy to find the line that represents the compound motion to the imagination by expressing the motions with lines and then drawing intersecting parallels."
"For instance, I find within me two different ideas of the sun."
"But now that the soul is on trial in its body, and the life of man is and must be a see the lirst of the four."
"The parts into which substance as thus conceived would be divided either will retain the nature of substance, or they will not."
"or rather these embryos of embryos of embryos."
"Thus it was infinitely easier for him to preserve his righteousness than it is for us to do so without the grace of Jesus Christ, since without it, we no longer find pleasure in our duty."
", it must hold the chief place in the mind."
"The reasons for its rare employment in investigations of nature are to be found in current misconceptions, whereof we shall examine the causes hereafter in our philosophy."
"Thus, we can say that all questions tend to the discovery of some relations, be they of magnitude or of quality."
"Only free men are thoroughly useful one to another, and associated among themselves by the closest necessity of friendship."
"For the present I wish to revert to those, who would rather abuse or deride human emotions than understand them."
"Jupiter therefore condemns in me his own crime; it is he who is the only guilty one."
"This answer, the most reasonable that Melissus can give, is fundamentally good and sound, but it may be disputed by something more specious and more dazzling."
"The dirty and ragged collar casts suspicion on him who wears it and on everything coming from him."
"Leeuwenhoek and other good observers."
"and that He conceals the rest from us."
"I reply that this distinction is extravagant in the mouth of Aristotle, for the nature this philosopher has established is a pure chimera."
"It happens indeed that, when we mistakenly fear an evil, the fear vanishes when we hear the true tidings; but the contrary also happens, namely, that we fear an evil which will certainly come, and our fear vanishes when we hear false tidings; thus imaginations do not vanish at the presence of the truth, in virtue of its being true, but because other imaginations, stronger than the first, supervene and exclude the present existence of that which we imagined, as I have shown in."
"): 'Indeed, it cannot be a fault in man's soul that it has no freedom of indifference as regards good in general."
"an emotion towards that which is necessary is, other conditions being equal, more intense than an emotion that which is non necessary."
"Thus do they cause in their children's minds the same passions and sensations with which they are affected, thereby corrupting their hearts and their reasoning in many ways."
"But most men are not in this state; they have neither the taste, nor intelligence, nor fastidiousness for anything but what affects the senses."
"Quodcumque facitis ex animo operamini."
"But it is reasonable to believe that when the body is clothed with immortality, and we no longer fear the dissolution of its parts, our soul will no longer be affected by the unpleasant sensations we feel against our wishes."
"From this I would have immediately concluded that I therefore knew the wax by the sight of my eyes, not by the inspection of the mind alone if I had not happened to glance out of the window at people walking along the street."
"It must especially be noted thai in our present state we know things only imperfectly, and that consequently it is absolutely necessaty"
"All animals love their children; and those birds who make their nests at the ends of branches make it sufficiently apparent that they fear certain animals will devour them: they judge these branches too weak to support their enemies, and strong enough to support both their babies and nests."
"It would take too long to enumerate the enors into which this prejudice leads us; there are very few errors in physics that it has not occasioned, and the results of some serious thought on this matter would perhaps be astonishing."
"For example, we know perfectly that Paris is larger than the Place Royale; and this knowledge is imperfect only in relation to an exact knowledge, according to which we would know exactly by how much Paris is larger than this square it encloses."
"For even if I should really suppose such a God, a God as powerful as I can imagine, I feel that in this extravagant supposition I could not doubt that I am, or that twice two equals four, because I perceive these things through simple perception without the use of memory."
"Finally, even if the soul had an exact knowledge of the animal spirits, and even if it were capable of moving them, or of determining their motion, I deny that it could I still mean a true and efficacious power."
"They would deserve it, certainly; but he who had wished them to deserve it and placed them in the sure way towards deserving it, should he be worthy of being called kind, on the pretext that he had recompensed the two others?'"
"and propagation of tire species."
", to have an adequate knowledge of the eternal and infinite essence of God."
"Imagine to yourself two princes each of whom wishes his eldest son to poison himself."
"We can compare two with four, four with sixteen and each number with every other."
"Now, just as the breadth, depth, and clarity of the strokes of an engraving depend upon the pressure applied to the burin, and the pliancy of the copper, so the depth and clarity of the traces in the imagination depend upon the pressure of the animal spirits, and upon the constitution of the brain fibers."
"Now all that which is eternally and essentially as perfect as God can make it proceeds essentially from him; in a word, is eternally and essentially good as he is, and consequently it is God, as he is."
"It seems to me worthwhile to point out that the mind knows objects in only two ways: through illumination par lumiere and through sensation."
"He therefore wills that they all have a natural inclination for their preservation and for their happiness, because they cannot be happy without existing."
"Whence it is easy to observe that one of these two letters must have been seen by the author of the other."
"Every particular thing, like the human body, must be conditioned by another particular thing to exist and operate in a fixed and definite relation; this other particular thing must likewise be conditioned by a third, and so on to infinity."
"quod si velit omnes Innocuos agere Omnipotens, ne sancta voluntas Degeneret, facto nec se manus inquinet ullo?"
"Success entire and infallible belongs only to the consequent will as it is called."
"For if we suppose a cask full of water, or a balloon as in the first figure full of air, and if, after having fitted it with a pipe, we insert a piston into this pipe, the piston will be repelled as much as it is impelled."
"and consequently it is clear that A can exist The Search after without or separated from, since substances can exist without one another, because otherwise they would not be substances."
"Humility is pain arising from a man's contemplation of his own weakness of body or mind."
"One finds books full of these ridiculous studies, and it is these trifles which have excited so many wars of erudition."
"all one can know of the soul, without having to construct arguments in which error might be found."
"After we have proved, that these faculties of ours are general notions, which cannot be distinguished from the particular instances on which they are based, we must inquire whether volitions themselves are anything besides the ideas of things."
"xli.), or to be pleasurably affected (Def. of the Emotions, xxx.); the good which we hear of ourselves we readily believe."
"This dialogue presupposes, contrary to the truth, that the Counter remonstrants make God the cause of evil, and teach a kind of predestination in the Mahometan manner according to which it does not matter whether one does good or evil, and the assumption that one is predestined assures the fact."
"Practically all men judge that the fixed stm are all at an equal distance from the earth and are attached to the sky as to a vault."
"It is evident that we cannot distinctly know the changes of which a being is capable when we do not distinctly know the nature of that being."
"A young boy walks, talks, and makes the same gestures as his father."
"For in the final analysis, it can be seen that words and all external signs we make use of to express our thoughts to other men have the effect we wish only because they impress in the brain of those listening to us the same traces and excite the same agitation of spirits as accompany our ideas and our inner disposition with regard to them."
"Shall I say, 'a rational animal'?"
"But people who like The Search after woodcock intestines and who savor stone marten droppings do not mention the impurity of these things, though they point it out in the tcrement of all other animals."
"quod principium manens in se incommutabiliter"
"This wrong choice would destroy his wisdom and his goodness. '"
"The differences in men's ways of life are almost infinite."
"For in the first article of the fourth part of his philosophy, which is Tlrat in orda to find tire true causes of wlrat existJ on tire eartlr."
"And not only of it, but of all the other propositions I remember demonstrating at some stage, such as the truths of geometry and others of the same kind."
"He adds that men, in order to establish what is termed Imperium in Imperio supposed that their soul was a direct creation of God, something which could not be produced by natural causes, furthermore that it had an absolute power of determination, a state of things contrary to experience."
"Even so there are asymptote figures in geometry where an infinite length makes only a finite progress in breadth."
"We clearly see that it can be round or square, in motion or at rest."
"For a the rays leaving point are diverted toward the axis upon entering the aqueous humor, and from there upon entering the crystalline lens, and again upon leaving the crystalline lens to enter the vitreous humor, and converge at point E; and they cause there the same pressure vibrations as those at point."
"For even though they had supposed that there is a freedom of complete indifference, so that the will can choose without cause, and that thus this effect could not be seen in its cause (which is a great absurdity), they ought always to take into account that God was able to foresee this event in the idea of the possible world that he resolved to create."
"Would that not be to contradict our Lord, who said that Tyre and Sidon would have profited better by his preaching, if they had had the good fortune to hear it, than Capernaum?."
"Refraction does not prevent the image traced at the fundus of our eyes when we view the rising moon from being smaller than that formed when it has long since risen."
"Nor does man give himself new modifications that materially change or modify his substance, for the impulse of love, which God unceasingly impresses in us, neither increases nor diminishes, whether we are actually loving or not,.e., whether or not this natural impulse of love is determined by some particular idea of our mind."
"Chapter Nine Lol'e andersion, and their principal kinds."
"He will produce only that which he wills, for his inclination prompts him to good."
"Second, the will does not permit the understanding to be occupied for very long even with those things that give it some pleasure, because, as has been said, all created things can please us for a while, but they quickly become distasteful to us, and then our mind turns away from them and searches once more for something else to satisfy it."
"How it ents us from discovering the truth."
"not an extravagant thing to say that God struggles against Himself and that He destroys His works when a bull fights with a lion, when a wolf devours a sheep, and when the sheep eats the grass that God makes grow."
"But one must believe that even sufferings and monstrosities are part of order; and it is well to bear in mind"
"ut dicas ita ut soles, hunc sapientem nostrum nusquam inveniri."
"and as if one should not consult the idea of goodness in answering the Manichaeans; whereas he had declared himself quite differently in his Dictionary."
"It diminishes when objects that are too bright might harm the retina, or when we fixedly look at a nearby object."
"And because it Nicoltu Ma/ branch is not easy to defer to them at the expense of truth, and because our natural love for the truth leads us to defend it ardently, they judge us opinionated."
"It is not to be imagined, however, that our freedom consists in an indetermination or an indifference of equipoise, as if one must needs be inclined equally to the side of yes and of no and in the direction of different courses, when there are several of them to take."
"But let us not further examine the marvelous definitions this philosopher has The Search after given us of the four elementary qualities, and let us also assume that everything the senses teach us about these qualities is incontestable."
"Even the very arteries and veins themselves are linked to these nerves, as Willis has discovered in the case of the lower trunk of the great artery, which is linked to them near the heart, and in the cases of the axillary anery on the right side, the emulgent vein, and some others."
"They are reflected on ourface and perceptibly indicate respect and fear, and all our most hidden feelings."
"corrupt and in a state of disorder, because the mind is naturally led to love bodies that are not worthy of love or have no efficacy for acting on it, and because the mind often loves them more than God Himself."
"But, in so far as one represents one thing, another another, it is plain that they differ widely among themselves."
"For as the will of the Creator is the nature of each of the creatures, how could what occurs by the will of God be contrary to nature?"
"as it were, and that for each branch cut back several others grow that bear everything, both flowers and fruit, of which a single seed would with time produce entire forests."
"It is almost as we have spoken above of the consequent will in God, which results from all the antecedent wills."
"The question of the use of philosophy in theology was debated much amongst Christians, and difficulty was experienced over settling the limits of its use when it came to detailed consideration."
"Obest aurcm, si haec ad ipsam doc:trinam pietatis peninere arbitretur, and peninacius affinnare audeat quod ignorat."
"They know order and eternal truths, and even the beings that God has made according to these truths or according to order, through the union these minds necessarily have with the Word, or the wisdom of God, which enlightens them, as has just been explained."
"But this is what reason teaches us."
"For clearly, this truth consists only in the relation of equality between twice two and four."
"For, as we said in note, we do not imagine the sun to be so near us, because we are ignorant of its true distance, but because the mind conceives the magnitude of the sun to the extent that the body is affected thereby."
"Let us assume that represents the surface of the glass, and that I,."
"But as for the terms of sensible ideas, almost no one recognizes that they are equivocal."
"The Peripatetics claim on the contrary that animals feel this heat as well as we, that they are like us in their aversion to everything that inconveniences them, and generally that they are capable of all the sensations and passions that we experience."
"Let these people seriously examine whether it is absolutely necessary either to fall into error or never to give complete consent except to entirely evident things, whether truth attends geometry because geometers observe this rule, and whether the errors into which some have fallen concerning the squaring of the circle, the duplication of the cube, and certain other very difficult problems do not come from some rashness or stubbornness that makes them take probability for truth."
"Let us examine his other proofs."
"So Van Vloten and Bruder."
"Gold and lead are very heavy, very hard, and very perceptible; water and air, on the contrary, are hardly perceptible."
"Wherefore nothing can exist; outside himself, whereby he can be conditioned or constrained to act."
"The first is that we sometimes have so much freedom of mind that in one minute, for example, we can have sixty thoughts in rapid succession, and at other times our mind has but the same thought for a minute."
"For as we imagine that heat is emitted by fire, so we blindly believe that the objects of our passions cause the pleasure we enjoy when we possess them and that thus they are good, since they are capable of producing good for us."
"The size of the object must be known from sense experience in order to judge its approximate distance; and because I know, or have several times seen, that a house is bigger than a man, although the image of a house might be bigger than that of a man, I nevertheless do not judge it or see it to be nearer."
"But, after all, one must not doubt for the sake of doubting: doubts must serve us as a gangway to the truth."
"Thus we see, that the mind can undergo many changes, and can pass sometimes to a state of greater perfection, sometimes to a state of lesser perfection."
"Bayle introduces it everywhere."
"St. Paul, as it would seem, had this in mind when he offered himself as an example."
"But what we know of it might be almost nothing compared to what it is in itself."
"You will therefore never make us understand', he adds, 'how God did not will that Eve and Adam should sin, since he rejected all the combinations wherein they would not have sinned.'"
"Intelligence is, as it were, the soul of freedom, and the rest is as its body and foundation."
"I say also, physical."
"It is further necessary that they should distinguish between idea and words, whereby we signify things."
"As for the parallel between the relation of the understanding to the true and that of the will to the good, one must know that a clear and distinct perception of a truth contains within it actually the affirmation of this truth: thus the understanding is necessitated in that direction."
"void they could be agitated still more easily."
"And could anyone see them drawn without laughing, unless this author had dizzied and confused the minds of those who read him?"
"It is true that in several places in his works he tries to explain them by the qualities of heat and cold, moisture and dryness, heaviness and lightness."
"Besides, we do not always follow the latest judgement of practical understanding when we resolve to will; but we always follow, in our willing, the result of all the inclinations that come from the direction both of reasons and passions, and this often happens without an express judgement of the understanding."
"After that, he needs no refutation, and Chrysippus might have spared himself the trouble he took to prove the great principle of contradictories, following the account by Cicero in his book De Fato '"
"They have seen that often the simple touching of some visible body was swiftly followed by great movements."
"It is true that the teachings of the Stoics (and perhaps also of some famous philosophers of our time), confining themselves to this alleged necessity, can only impart a forced patience; whereas our Lord inspires thoughts more sublime, and even instructs us in the means of gaining contentment by assuring us that since God, being altogether good and wise, has care for everything, even so far as not to neglect one hair of our head, our confidence in him ought to be entire."
"each of the known forces alone could make the body move in one minute, and then take three of these parts on one of the lines and draw through the beginning of the fourth parallel to or parallel to."
"Now if he had no knowledge of pain, I would like to know how he could realize with clarity md certitude that what he feels is none of these things."
"How many times does one and the same man not experience an inability to do a certain act of will (for example, an act of love for a man who had just injured him; an act of scorn for a fine sonnet that he had composed; an act of hatred for a mistress; an act of approval of an absurd epigram."
"Everyone must agree that God is altogether good and just, that his goodness makes him contribute the least possible to that which can render men guilty, and the most possible to that which serves to save them (possible, I say, subject to the general order of things); that his justice prevents him from condemning innocent men, and from leaving good actions without reward; and that he even keeps an exact proportion in punishments and rewards."
"The relations that the Author of nature has placed among our natural inclinations in order to unite us with one another seem still more worthy of our study and inquiries than those among bodies, or among minds in relation to bodies."
"Thus it is a groundless prejudice to believe that we see objects as they are in themselves."
"If one doubts, if one wills, if one reasons, it is necessary only to believe that the soul is a thing that doubts, wills, and reasons, and nothing more, provided one has not experienced other qualities in it; for one knows the soul only by the inner sensation one has of it."
"God can never have a primitive particular will, that is, independent of laws or general acts of will; such a thing would be unreasonable."
"For just as we see that the fibers that make up flesh harden with time, and that the flesh of a young partridge is without doubt more tender than that of an old bird, so the brain fibers of a child or a young man must be much softer and more delicate than those of persons more advanced in age."
"I have spoken of this above."
"That does not prevent all those who have good will, and who persevere therein, from being saved."
"and soon after: 'Nihil est tam contrarium rationi et constantiae, quam fortuna; ut mihi ne in Deum quidem"
"I shall now explain and prove this opinion."
"Partiality is thinking too highly of anyone because of the love we bear him."
"We have only too many experiences of these things, and everyone knows well enough that there are whole families afflicted with great weaknesses of imagination inherited from their parents."
"Now philosophers have troubled themselves exceedingly on the question of the origin of substantial forms."
"But in nature (by Prop. xiv., Coroll.)"
"xlviii.), in so far as it is attributable to several causes, is less powerful in regard to each of them."
"If you consider the construction of the brain's fibers as well as the agitation and amount of spirits and blood in the different sexes and ages, you will not have much difficulty in seeing roughly what passions certain people are liable to and, as a result, what judgments they form of objects."
"The permission of a certain evil is only excusable when one cannot remedy it without introducing a greater evil; but it cannot be excusable in those who have in hand a remedy more efficacious against this evil, and against all the other evils that could spring from the suppression of this one.'"
"talk about them always has an effect, though so weak and languid as to be hardly felt."
"But it is not necessary to cross two borders to see unreasonable laws and customs religiously observed, or to find men who follow disagreeable and bizarre fashions; one need not leave France for that."
"Bayle (perhaps the author of this same Reflexion quotes it Reply to the Questions of a Provincial vol."
"Thus, the passions hold such vast and extensive sway that nothing can be conceived with regard to which it might be said that all men are free from theirdominance."
"But even if the genius of the nation, the whim of the fashion which Ch."
"This is sufficiently evident from the fact that the cause is only spoken of in very general terms, such as there exists then something; there exists then some power, andc.; or from the that we only express it in a negative manner it is not or that, andc."
"we are in lhe best possible state wilh regard to the lhings we sense."
"Others would have them truly act through their action; but they find such great difficulty in explaining precisely what this action is, and there are so many different views on the matter that I cannot bring myself to relate them."
"They were mad, you will say, and I agree; but their soul was able to be mistaken in these things, and hence all other men can fall into similar errors if they judge objects on the testimony of their senses."
"We also have two ways of recognizing a thing to be good or bad: by employing the mind alone, or by employing the."
"But, should they be annoyed, let them know that many people find that the resting places I choose make the road smoother and more pleasant."
"What imagination to define the simplicity of bodies by the power of selfmovement!"
"It is true that the soul is joined to the body and is nalUrally its form; but it is also true that it is united to God in a much closer and more essential way."
"if we reflect on what our opponents themselves concede, namely, that it depends solely on the decree and will of God, that each thing is what it is."
"Ill. An experiment that proves this."
", hal they arc Jlre,o,ed Inward the enter of the cunh."
", we shall see all these different colors through the medium of the point of intersection."
"For in the final analysis, it is absolutely necessary that everything in the world be either a being or a mode of a being which no attentive mind can deny."
"The question of the conformity of faith with reason has always been a great problem."
"For certainly if, while I was awake, someone suddenly appeared before me, and then immediately disappeared, as happens in dreams, in such a way, I mean, that I could not see where he was coming from or where he was going, I would not unreasonably judge it to be an apparition or a delusion produced by my brain, rather than a real person."
"Deus essemiam suam perfecte cognoscit."
"An author is so involved in a species of study, that the traces of the subject of his occupation are so profoundly imprinted, and spread so vividly throughout his brain, that they sometimes efface the traces of even quite different things."
"But eternity cannot be explained in terms of duration (I. Def."
"we are inwardly conscious, and which we know by experience to be within us, simply because we do not comprehend some other thing which we know to be incomprehensible in its nature.'."
"But man acts absolutely according to the laws of his nature, when he lives in obedience to reason."
"All the emotions which are attributable to the mind as active, or in other words to reason, are emotions of pleasure and desire."
"E.D. He who hates anyone will endeavour to do him an injury, unless he fears that a greater injury will thereby accrue to himself; on the other hand, he who loves anyone will, by the same law, seek to benefit him."
"The Search after impressions is to stifle their reason and corrupt their bener inclinations."
"All these things considered, it is not difficult to explain in general how these convulsive movements can occur after what was just said about natural and voluntary movements."
"The impenetrability of bodies makes it clearly conceivable that motion can be communicated by impulsion, and experience proves, without the slightest obscurity, that in actual fact it is communicated in this way."
"An objection against the use I attribute to the oblique muscles."
"For in teJling them that God does all, they would only have claimed that God provides His cooperation for all things; and certainly the Jews did not have this cooperation in mind, those nonphilosophical among them believing that God does everything and not that God cooperates with everything."
"But ant I not in enur?"
"But surely just the opposite is the case, for the Fathers and the holiest and most enlightened people in religion have ordinarily shown in several passages of their works what the disposition of their mind and heart was with respect to the question we are discussing."
"he scvcnlh DialoR' tar hyJicl."
"The crystalline lens of a given man has become too convex; this is a defect, I agree."
"Although moved by grace, he has a true power, then, that only too often has its effect, whereas the other has only an imaginary power; and to respond to the clear and evident decision of the Council in the way I have just described is to take advantage of the equivocal term power and to be deceived or to wish to deceive others."
"I find it a great fault in historians"
"it is whose cause we wish to know."
"a Thus far we have treated of the false idea."
"Valentin Weigel, Pastor of Zschopau in Saxony, a man of wit, even of excessive wit, although people would have it that he was a visionary, was perhaps to some extent of that opinion; as was also a man known as Johann Angelus Silesius, author of certain quite pleasing little devotional verses in German, in the form of epigrams, which have just been reprinted."
"Besides, the apparent size of the moon is not very different from that of an ordinary head at a certain distance."
"This clearly shows that the object we are looking at need not produce species that resemble it in order for us to see it."
"By men in this and the following propositions, I mean men whom we regard without any particular emotion."
"Besides, it seems to follow from the existence of the imaginative faculty, of which I experience myself as making use when dealing with these material things, that they exist."
"Furthermore, the perception, or rather the confused sensation of this weakness or sluggishness of our imagination, leads us into a kind of vicious humility that might be termed spiritual baseness."
"Yet it is certain that all knowledge consists only in the clear perception of the relations objects have with each other."
"It is therefore not necessary to tell men that sensible pleasures are not good, and that they do not make those who enjoy them happy, because this is not true, and at the time of temptation they recognize this to their misfortune."
"The mind thus assigns the burning sensation to the object nearest it."
"Even such beasts as dogs, which must submit to those with whom they live, generally have their machine disposed in such a way that they assume the appearance they must in relation to those around them, for this is absolutely necessary for their preservation."
"Only God can have all these perfections."
"see the Elucidation on light and colors."
"Lastly, pleasure, in so far as it is good, is in harmony with reason (for it consists in the fact that a man's capability for action is increased or aided); nor is the mind passive therein, except in so far as a man's power of action is not increased to the extent of affording him an adequate conception of himself and his actions."
"And why is it necessal to conclude that all men are ignorant because they arc inwardly convinced that they themselves are ignorant?"
"Fiction for fiction, instead of imagining that the planets were suns, one might conceive that they were masses melted in the sun and thrown out, and that would destroy the foundation of this hypothetical theology."
"Finally, I observe that, since each one of the motions that take place in the part of the brain that directly affects the mind produces only one sensation in the mind, no better explanation of this can be conceived than that the particular movement produces, of all the possible sensations it could produce, the sensation that most effectively and most frequently conduces to the preservation of the human being in good health."
"I said that I considered as belonging to the essence of a thing that, which being given, the thing is necessarily given also, and which being removed, the thing is necessarily removed also; or that without which the thing, and which itself without the thing can neither be nor be conceived."
"They are like children walking alone in the dark without a candle; they imagine horrible demons and are troubled and cry out as though all were lost."
"The second thing found in each of our sensations is the disturbance of the fibers of our senses that is communicated to the brain."
"ad cor wellr, sed non ei videlis."
"The human body, on the other hand, which is infinitely more admirable and more deserving of our attention than all that can be known about Jupiter, Saturn, and the other planets, is practically unknown."
"For what objections can now be raised against me?"
"Or it may be that he who proposes them does not know the ways to resolve them, or that he hides them to confuse; as if one were to ask that two mean proportionals be found between two lines, without adding by the intersection of the circle and the parabola, or of the circle and the ellipse, and so forth."
"And adding thereto the motives of religion, we shall be content with the order God has set therein."
"When a subject is abstract, it can hardly be made perceptible to the senses without obfuscation; rendering it intelligible is enough."
"; that it is impossible for men to comprehend nature, that its mechanisms and secrets are impenetrable to the human mind; plus an infinity of other vague and ambiguous propositions, which they reel off with pomp and magnificence, and which they support with the authority of a crowd of authors, whose mere names or a couple of whose passages these people boast of knowing."
"If one wants to know what it is, it is above all necessary to be careful not to confuse it with the things to which it is united."
"And can women wear hoods and fanhingales, except at carnival time, when they wish to disguise themselves?"
"Finally, all the reasons are put forward that lead us to conclude in the existence of material things: not that I think these are very useful when it comes to proving what they do prove, namely that a world really exists, and that human beings have bodies, and so forth,"
"I am in this place expressly speaking of a man living under the guidance of reason."
"Each time we give our consent to probabilities, we clearly run the risk of being deceived; and, in fact, we are deceived almost every time, or, if we are not deceived, it is only through good fortune."
"I admit that one would be mistaken in being pleased by this son of novelty, because when we have found the truth, we should stick by it firmly, since curiosity is given us only in order to lead us to its discovery."
"Thus, although each individual lives content and rejoices in that nature belonging to him wherein he has his being, yet the life, wherein each is content and rejoices, is nothing else but the idea, or soul, of the said individual, and hence the joy of one only differs in nature from the joy of another, to the extent that the essence of one differs from the essence of another."
"But what do I actually see other than hats and coats, which could be covering automata?"
"For men are diverse (seeing that those who live under the guidance of reason are few), yet are they generally envious and more prone to revenge than to sympathy."
"Thus, they move the parts of the body to which these muscles are attached."
"It is only want of attention that diminishes our good, and this attention must be given to us through some admixture of evils."
"The SetUch after th exposed to the moon and are eaten by wonns, the sun is in conjunction with Mars at the birth of a child and something extraordinary happens to the child."
"Finally, when hope diminishes and is replaced by despair, it is still clear that this despair is a passion only on account of the emotion of sadness mixed with the emotion of desire; for the soul's judgment when considering a good as beyond its reach is not a passion unless this judgment moves us."
"Thence it follows that God wills antecedently the good and consequently the best."
"Second, He placed under the aqueous humor the crystalline lens, which He formed from a denser material and whose refraction is greater than that of the other humors, and further, He made it much more convex, especially under the point at which it touches the vitreous humor."
"Patitur perire in aevum, that divers men believed in his time that the number of those wicked enough to be damned would be very small."
"must necessarily be defined by the power of an external cause compared with our own."
"If the duration be indefinite, the recollection is imperfect; this everyone seems to have learnt from nature."
"Many philosophers have deemed that, even in the order of Nature, a body may operate from a distance immediately on many remote bodies at the same time."
"Si non vult Deus esse malum, cur non vetat? inquit."
"Without much thought we therefore judge that the body can be, and in fact is, our good."
"The company offers diversion and consolation."
"Thus nothing is done without his permission or against his will, and he can prevent, as seems good to him, as much and as often as seems good to him, all that does not please him, and in consequence sin, which is the thing in the world that most offends him and that he most detests; and he can produce in each human soul all the thoughts that he approves.'"
"All that would have come to pass without miracles, since there would have been general laws on this subject."
"On the contrary, we believe the mind has a capacity for receiving, one after another, an infinity of different modifications previously unknown to it."
"And thus we should see, if we were capable of understanding him, that it is not even possible to wish for anything better (as much in general as for ourselves) than what he does."
"I cannot for the present explain my meaning more clearly."
"we mean what cannot die through the ordinal forces of nature, or cannot change, or finally that which can be neither corrupted nor dispersed like a vapor or smoke."
"I have said it, and I say it again, so it may be remembered; I never planned to treat the basic nature of the mind."
"For it must be known that all things are connected in each one of the possible worlds: the universe,"
"For, by a remote cause, we understand a cause which is in no way conjoined to the effect."
"He bas promised and wills to bestow with justice upon those who cooperate with Him."
"Viewing one's own grandeur produces haughtiness; viewing one's strength, valor, or boldness and viewing any other worthwhile quality naturally produces another passion that will always be a kind of pride."
"Is it not to be an idolater of the god of riches to work ceaselessly to acquire goods?"
"For, just as we believe by faith that the supreme happiness of the other life consists purely in the contemplation of the divine greatness, so we find also by experience that this contemplation, though far less perfect, affords us the greatest pleasure of which we are capable in this life."
"But although something must be in order to be perceived, everything that is, is not thereby perceptible in itself; for in order to be so, it must be able to act immediately upon the soul, it must be able of itself to enlighten, affect, or modify minds."
"But here is an instance somewhat similar, which will serve to disabuse them."
"And such miracles are only so by comparison, and in relation to us; just as our works would be considered miraculous amongst animals if they were capable of remarking upon them."
"This is because when their brains do not receive any traces from some present object, those the story has formed there are reopened, often with such force as to represent the ghosts that have been depicted for them as though they were before their eyes."
", I betook me again to traveling before the winter was well ended."
"More generally I take it for anything that is the immediate object of the mind."
"But if it be the nature of a thinking being, as seems, prima facie, to be the case, to form true or adequate thoughts"
"If one pays serious attention to these two truths, the first that it is through the body, by generation, that Original Sin is transmitted and that it is not engendered by the soul and the second that the body can only act upon the soul and corrupt it through the traces of the part of the brain upon which its thoughts are naturally dependent, I hope you will be convinced that Original Sin is transmitted in the way just explained."
"Perhaps you will say that the natural law prohibits such actions and that this law was known to him."
"He is like a great architect whose aim in view is the satisfaction or the glory of having built a beautiful palace, and who considers all that is to enter into this construction: the form and the materials, the place, the situation, the means, the workmen, the expense, before he forms a complete resolve."
"It is obvious that these two methods are absolutely necessary."
"Descartes confesses also, in a passage of his Principles that it is impossible to find an answer to the difficulties on the division of matter to infinity, which he nevertheless recognizes as actual."
"We can only hold such an hypothesis so long as we have no clear and distinct idea in other words, until we reflect the knowledge which we have of the first principle of all things, and find that which teaches us that God is not a deceiver, and until we know this with the same certainty as we know from reflecting on the are equal to two right angles."
"It is very easy according to this explanation to resolve an infinity of questions concerning the habits, as, for example, why children are more capable of acquiring new habits than older persons are; why it is very hard to rid oneself of old habits; why it is that by virtue of speaking, men have acquired such great facility at it that they pronounce their words with incredible speed, even without thinking, as happens only too often to those who recite prayers they have been accustomed to saying for many years."
"The same thing must be thought concerning all the traces tied to ideas of spiritual things."
"That is, if the object of the idea constituting the human mind be a body, nothing can take place in that body without being perceived by the mind."
"Convinced as we are that men cannot teach one another and that those who listen us do not Jearn the truths we address their em unless He who has revealed them us at the same time reveals them to their mind as well, we still find ourselves obliged to warn those who wish to understand this work not to believe us at our word through inclination, nor to oppose what we say through aversion."
"But we never have certain marks for recognizing this term, and we are never justified in considering a man utterly abandoned"
"Let us carefully avoid all sensations that are too lively, as well as the emotions of the soul that exhaust the capacity of our wealt intelligence."
"Bayle appear to maintain that this method of explaining things and of establishing a best among all the plans for the universe, one such as may not be surpassed by any other, sets a limit to God's power. '"
"or what can he conceived alone and without relation to anything else."
"If a line is drawn on paper and another is drawn at its end perpendicular and equal to it, they will appear roughly equal."
"We are wont to call proud the man who boasts too much."
"If, then, the mind produces its own ideas from the material impressions the brain receives from objects, it continuously does the same thing, or something as difficult, or even more difficult, as if it created them."
"Thus, as it happens usually that that which appears without angles has none, we readily believe it to be always thus."
"Some Christians have imagined that they could be devout without loving their neighbour, and pious without loving God; or else people have thought that they could love their neighbour without serving him and could love God without knowing him."
"How we know our own soul."
"Consequently, the final will or the decree of God, resulting from all the considerations he can have, would be to give it to them."
"And in doing so, I would be guessing no more than a man who, never having seen the machines of the Samaritan pump, would assert that there are wheels and pumps for raising the water."
"Besides which, those who are geometers know what I could say following several others, or can educate themselves in it in books dealing with dioptrics."
"Men can only love because God incessantly pushes them toward the good in general,.e., toward Himself; for God having created them only for Himself, He never preserves them without turning and pushing them toward Himself."
"For when the body is at rest in sleep, the mind simultaneously is in a state of torpor also, and has no power of thinking, such as it possesses when the body is awake."
"Again, this cause or this modification (for the reason by which we established the first part of this proof) must in its turn be conditioned by another cause, which also is finite, and has a conditioned existence, and, again, this last by another (for the same reason); and so on (for the same reason) to infinity."
"all the extraordinary and irrelevant things."
"But it seems to me evident that pain is confused here with sorrow, and that far from being a consequence of the mind's knowledge and the will's action, pain rather precedes both of these."
"The human mind has ideas."
"Among other things I see at about a hundred steps from me a large white horse running toward the right at a full gallop."
"Nor can it be reasonably doubted that they are spiritual and are very different from the bodies they represent."
"See the Elucidation uf the sixth chapter of the sccnnd part of book."
"Mandemus memoriae quod vir mitissimus, et ob hoc quoque maximus, Thrasea crebro dicere solebat, Qui vitia odit, homines odit.)'"
"I grant that at certain times it seems to us that we are thinking only about a single thing and that we yet have trouble in fully comprehending it, whereas at other times we have no difficulty in comprehending it as well as many other things."
"It is not added as a condition of the problem that there is still something to do, so that the mind will The Search after not stop searching for it, and hence it cannot be discovered."
"On the first chapter of the first book, where I say: That the will can l'arimuly determine the impression it has for the good only by ordering the understanding to represent some particular object to it."
"Finally, as far as my parents are concerned, even if everything is true of them that I have ever thought to be so, certainly they do not conserve me in being, nor did they in any way produce me insofar as I am a thinking thing; they only implanted certain dispositions in the matter that I judged myself"
"What is to be concluded from this?"
"for from that it clearly follows that all straight lines drawn from the center to the circumference are equal."
"This would be a truth."
"God does not prevent the destruction of beings through a new volition, not only because His first volition suffices to restore them, but especially because His volitions are much more worthy than the restoration of these beings."
"Nor is it necessary to reject these opinions as contrary to our faith, lest occasion be given to the wise men of this world for condemning the holy truths of the Christian religion."
"Can they also both exist?"
"Therefore, since everything had been in order before sin, and since God always acts in conformity with order, the mother and child communicated by the means described above."
"For if we are moved by an attractive desire, clearly it will not fail to justify itself through the favorable judgments it forms of its object."
"Such seems to be the primary meaning of these terms."
"He introduces God (ch."
"But the idea of matter at rest includes only the idea of the power that created it, without the necessity of another power to put it at rest, since if we simply conceive of matter without considering any power, we will necessarily conceive of it at rest."
"their passions through contrary passions; they can conquer fear or pain through vanity; I mean merely that they can choose not to flee or complain when, feeling themselves under the gaze of the mob, the desire for glory sustains them and stops the movement in their bodies that urges them toward flight."
"Bodies surrounding us act on our soul only when they produce certain kinds of motion in our txldy and when this motion is communicated to the main part of the brain."
", consequently (by what has been shown) there are as many kinds of desire, as there are kinds of objects whereby we are affected."
"This distinction will not be made because it will be sufficiently clear from the context whether one intends to speak of the ac imagination of the soul or the pas imagination of the body."
"Yet the greater part of those engaged in study do not proceed in this way at all."
"Is it necessary for Him to will with a positive volition for it to be at rest, or is it sufficient that He stop willing it to be active?"
"Whatever of Christ is perceptible deserves our reverence only because of its union with the Word, which cannot be the object of anything but the mind alone."
"because God is not subject to change, nor, consequently, are the ideas He contains."
"wont to say that wonders are contrary to nature; but this is not true."
"That labyrinth has caused infinite confusion, as much with the ancients as with those of later times, even so far as to lead men into the absurd error of the Lazy Sophism, which closely resembles fate after the Turkish fashion."
"So the Peripatetics and the Cartesians believe that animals have a soul,.e."
"which cannot occur unless they are actually formed md l'Onnel ted."
"A line may have twists and turns, ups and downs, points of reflexion and points of inflexion, interruptions and other variations, so that one sees neither rhyme nor reason therein, especially when taking into account only a portion of the line; and yet it may be that one can give its equation and construction, wherein a geometrician would find the reason and the fittingness of all these so called irregularities."
"Since therefore it is by the nature of things that God exists, that he is all powerful, and that he has perfect knowledge of all things, it is also by the nature of things that matter,"
"But if one is then bold enough to resist them, and if they have no further response, they then openly state their opinion of themselves and of those who resist them."
"For it could be the case that what I am seeing is not really wax; it could be the case that I do not even have eyes with which to see anything; but it certainly cannot be the case, when I see something, or when I think I am seeing something (the difference is irrelevant for the moment), that I myself who think should not be something."
"I have never even seen a Tartar or a Chinese nor is it the inward testimony of my consciousness, which only teaches me that I wish to be happy; only God can give me the inner conviction that all other men as well as the angels and devils wish to be happy."
"For the obstinate and steadfast belief on the part of several people that they have found, for example, perpetual motion, the way to square the circle and to duplicate the cube by ordinary geometry, is probably due to their great desire to seem to have done what others have failed to do."
"This, I think, will be evident to every moderately attentive reader."
"But let us examine the other qualities of his mind."
"Bayle says Reply to the Questions of a Provincial ch. 'that this dogma of the Origenist is heretical, in that it teaches that damnation is not founded simply on sin, but on voluntary impenitence': but is not this voluntary impenitence a continuation of sin?"
"To say that God possesses a 'glory' when he is alone, that depends upon the meaning of the term."
"But if it were allowable to assign to God a different intellect and a different will, without any change in his essence or his perfection, what would there be to prevent him changing the decrees which he has made concerning created things, and nevertheless remaining perfect?"
"But there are many other beliefs that, although I seem to be taught them by nature, I have in fact derived not from nature itself, but from a certain habit of judging without due consideration, and so these can easily turn out to be false."
"It is observable, accordingly, that scarcely in a single instance has any one of their disciples surpassed them; and I am quite sure that the most devoted of the present followers of Aristotle would think themselves happy if they had as much knowledge of nature as he possessed, were it even under the condition that they should never afterwards attain to higher."
"is something which is in God, and which without God can neither be nor be conceived, whether it be a modification (i. Coroll.), or a mode which expresses God's nature in a certain conditioned manner."
"My father only granted him the existence which his wisdom could not refuse to the world where he is included: he made him pass from the region of the possible to that of the actual beings."
"But since I designed to employ my whole life in the search after so necessary a science, and since I had fallen in with a path which seems to me such, that if any one follow it he must inevitably reach the end desired, unless he be hindered either by the shortness of life or the want of experiments, I judged that there could be no more effectual provision against these two impediments than if I were faithfully to communicate to the public all the little I might myself have found, and incite men of superior genius to strive to proceed farther, by contributing, each according to his inclination and ability, to the experiments which it would be necessary to make, and also by informing the public of all they might discover, so that, by the last beginning where those before them had left off, and thus connecting the lives and labours of many, we might collectively proceed much farther than each by himself could do."
"But when gross bodies are very remote from the center ofthe vortex, since the circular motion of the subtle matter is then very great (because it uses nearly all its motion to rotate about the center of the vortex), the more solid these bodies are, the more motion they have, since they travel at roughly the same speed as the subtle matter in which they float."
"For just as in order to see visible objects distinctly we must have good vision and actually look at the objects, two things that are in us or that depend to some extent on us, so we must have a good mind and apply it well to reach the bottom of intelligible truths, two things that are also in us or that depend on us to some extent."
"Man, in so far as he is determined to a particular action because he has inadequate ideas, cannot be absolutely said to act in obedience to virtue; he can only be so described, in so far as he is determined for the action because he understands."
"If they are spiritual, only the pure understanding can know them."
"From this third kind of knowledge arises the highest possible mental acquiescence."
"Now, in order at length to pass on to the second part of this method, I shall first set forth the object aimed at, and next the means for its attainment."
"There are many kinds of strong imaginations."
"The specific plan of the first book."
"it can be said that this fear that the idea of eternity causes in their minds sometimes produces such a great disturbance in their imaginations that they dare not condemn these human traditions outright, and they often approve them by their example, because they have some appearance of wisdom in their superstition and in their false humility, as do these Pharisaic traditions of which Saint Paul speaks."
"And these people consider themselves obliged to praise the sciences and the authors upon whom they work in a hyperbolic way although the authors be im:levant and the sciences very lowly and useless."
"When, for example, we see light, it is quite certain that we see light; when we feel heat, we are not mistaken in believing that we feel heat, whether before or after the fall."
"Bayle has inserted in chapter of the Reply to the Questions of a Provincial (vol. ."
"But not only are bodies incapable of being the true causes of whatever exists: the most noble minds are in a similar state of impotence."
"There will therefore always be many things in the ass and outside the ass, although they be not apparent to us, which will determine him to go on one side rather than the other."
"If the road from A to that one proposes to take is the shortest possible, and if this road passes by, then the road from A"
"For (to continue this same example), they think it evident that the whole is greater than its part, that a mountain of marble is possible and that a mountain without a valley is impossible, and that it is not equally evident that there is a God."
"Sin is the cause of concupiscence, but it is not the cause of pleasure, just as free will is the cause ofsin without being the cause of the soul's natural impulse."
"And can one believe Montaigne when he says of himself: It is necessary for me to call people who serve me by the name oftheir functions or their countries."
"Who would not think (adds."
"Thus, gross bodies, at a certain distance from the center of the vortex, are lighter to the extent that they are more solid."
"We now pass on to compound bodies."
"God is fully self sufficient."
"The imagination of the aged."
"An infinity of examples of this are found in physics and morals; accordingly, it is often appropriate to combine a sufficient number of them for matters that cannot otherwise be demonstrated in order to find the troth, which it would be impossible to discover in any other way."
"Why should he not, then, just as well be the evil principle of the Manichaeans as the single good principle of the orthodox?"
", that the effect is most perfect which is produced immediately by God; the effect which requires for its production several intermediate causes is, in that respect, more imperfect."
"The first covering of the eye originates at the first nwcring of the optic nerve."
"For instance, we have remembrance of spoken words and of a tree; when the mind directs itself to them confusedly, it forms the notion of a tree speaking."
"its fibers would be so agitated that they would soon be broken down and burned."
"This so called fatality or necessity is only moral, as I have just shown: it does not affect freedom; on the contrary, it assumes the best use thereof; it does not render impossible the objects set aside by God's choice. '"
"All the objects pursued by the multitude not only bring no remedy that tends to preserve our being, but even act as hindrances, causing the death not seldom of those who possess them, and always of those who are possessed by them."
"If all things follow from a necessity of the absolutely perfect nature of God, why are there so many imperfections in nature?"
"For according to these definitions, fire is not dry, since it is not easily contained within its own boundaries; and ice is not moist, since it is easily contained within its own boundaries and since it is not easily adapted to external boundaries."
"According to observations, it must be that stand to, ore to,"
"But when I consult my reason I clearly see that since bodies cannot move themselves, and since their motor force is but the will of God that conserves them successively in different places, they cannot communicate a power they do not have and could not communicate even if it were in their possession."
"If bodies did not have a certain nature or force to act, and if God did all things, there would be only the supernatural in even the most ordinary effects."
"But as matter is itself of God's creation, it only furnishes a comparison and an example, and cannot be the very source of evil and of imperfection."
"I realize that men who consult their passions instead of order can easily imagine that God has no other rule for His volitions than His volitions themselves, and that if God follows some order, He does so precisely because He has willed and produced this order by a volition that is entirely free and indifferent in every way."
"certe necessarium Adae peccatum, quod Christi morte deletum est!"
"First, Aristotle does not attach any distinct idea to the word quality; one does not know whether by quality he means a real being distinct from matter, or only the modification of matter; it sometimes appears that he means it in one sense, and sometimes in another."
"If one is uncircumspect enough to contradict them, they first try to suggest, carefully and with an air of gentleness and charity, just who they are and the right they have to decide."
"I revered our theology, and aspired as much as any one to reach heaven: but being given assuredly to understand that the way is not less open to the most ignorant than to the most learned, and that the revealed truths which lead to heaven are above our comprehension, I did not presume to subject them to the impotency of my reason; and I thought that in order competently to undertake their examination, there was need of some special help from heaven, and of being more than man."
"Again, from any given idea some effect must necessarily follow (I. ); of this effect God is the adequate cause."
"We have already said several times that men should not be satisfied with error, and in the false goods they enjoy; that it is fitting for them to search after evidence of the truth and the true good they do not possess, and as a result to be led by things extnM rdinary and novel to them."
"This princess received some minor wounds, and her fright so impressed her imagination that they were communicated to the child she carried in her womb."
"I see clearly that I should not judge so absolutely of the firmness with which the parts of iron are joined together on the basis of the efforts I make to disunite them."
"Even its desires are not the true causes of ideas they are but the occasional or natural causes of their presence as a result of the natural laws concerning the union of our soul with universal Reason, as I have explained elsewhere."
"But these latter judgments are much more dangerous than the former, because we should always judge well of our neighbor, and because the malice of men makes our condemnation and speech against the reputation of others much more pleasing and makes a greater impression on the mind than do our complimentary judgments and speech."
"All pleasures have within themselves some feeling of perfection."
"And to cut the matter short, how comes it that he has prescribed laws for himself?"
"which is necessary for knowledge of the magnitude of motion, is unknown to."
"Whence one will come at last to the conclusion that God does all, the good and the evil, indifferently; unless one pretend with the Manichaeans that there are two principles, the one good and the other evil."
"Inconstancy of will is the cause of this laclc of attention and, consequently, of error."
"As regards the outside of the eye, there are strictly only the muscles that move compress it, about which I must here say something."
"Nam si in eisdem tormentis, et alrocissimis"
"For the explanation of memory, it is sufficient to understand this truth well: That all our different perceptions are attached to the changes occurring in the fibers of the principal part of the brain, where the soul resides more particularly; because assuming this single principle, the nature of memory is explained."
"To present these difficulties in brief, it must be observed that freedom is opposed, to all appearance, by determination or certainty of any kind whatever; and nevertheless the common dogma of our philosophers states that the truth of contingent futurities is determined."
"These emotions (see Def."
"But the final and decisive will results from consideration of all the goods and all the evils that enter into our deliberation, it results from a total combination."
"Indeed, I shall go so far as to say that I seek to be read by none, except those who will be able and willing to meditate seriously alongside me, and to withdraw their minds from the senses, and at the same time from all their preconceptions."
"Bayle himself refutes it admirably, as we shall see presently."
"But I pointed out that that neither precludes the existence of incomparably more good than evil, both moral and physical, in rational creatures in general, nor prevents the city of God, which contains all creatures, from being the most perfect state."
"ne sapientibus hujus mundi conrcmnendi doctrinam fidei occasio praebeatur."
"The fifth lhing is the sensible emotion of the soul, which feels itself moved by lhe unexpected flow of spirits."
"Rather, we should believe that as He contains within Himself the perfections of matter without being material, since it is certain that matter is related to some perfection in God, so He also comprehends the perfections of created minds without being a mind in the way we conceive of minds, and that His true name is ,.e.,"
"But I know this with evidence and certainty because it is God who teaches it to me for who else"
"Indeed, since the force with which bodies act is equal to the product of their acting mass masse agissante and speed, when the two bodies are equal and the speed of one is double that of the other, the one with the greater speed has transmitted all its motion or has expended all its force against the one it meets when the other has as yet acted with only half its mass."
"For the centrifugal force of each point of these layers is equal not to its speed but to the square of its speed divided by the diameter of its revolution."
"Thus, the same is true of light and the different colors as of sound and the different tones."
"To act virtuously is to act in obedience with reason."
"I know how very liable we are to delusion in what relates to ourselves, and also how much the judgments of our friends are to be suspected when given in our favor."
"has on his side all the advantages except that of the root of the matter, but I hope that truth (which he acknowledges himself to be on our side) by its very plainness, and provided it be fittingly set forth, will prevail over all the ornaments of eloquence and erudition."
"I was especially delighted with the mathematics, on account of the certitude and evidence of their reasonings; but I had not as yet a precise knowledge of their true use; and thinking that they but contributed to the advancement of the mechanical arts, I was astonished that foundations, so strong and solid, should have had no loftier superstructure reared on them."
"Because those suffering from some illness are impatient, and because it is advantageous neither to the prestige of physicians nor to the profit of apothecaries to see sick people without prescribing anything for them, physicians visit too little and prescribe too much."
"the first two Dialottws taphysics."
"We do not long consider an object without discovering the relations it has to us or to something that we love."
"But if the evil which he fears be shame, timidity becomes bashfulness."
"If only by the difference of their attributes, it will be granted that there cannot be more than one with an identical attribute."
"But when we suppose that we conceive an object something special, which we have never seen before, we must needs say that the mind, while regarding that object, has in itself nothing which it can fall to regarding instead thereof; therefore it is determined to the contemplation of that object only."
"They therefore have no clear idea of what they are saying when they allow for these particular beings."
"Our sensations are differem from knowledge and 'e. and tlrey are not tire consequences of tlrem."
"We believe the same thing to hold regarding the passions."
"It is claimed that this image diminishes proportionately as the object recedes; but this decrease is proportionately less perceptible as the object whose distance changes is farther away."
"that is the cause of all our evils, and that corrupts all our inclinations."
"provided it had been new, as."
"What would support civil society is often the cause of its disunity and ruin; and, not to depart from my subject, it is often the cause of the communicatiof' and entrenchment of enor."
"His pure antecedent will tends towards giving reason, as a great good, and preventing the evils in question."
"For in the final analysis, astronomy, music, mechanics, and generally all the sciences that deal with things that vary quantitatively, and that as a result can be treated as extended,.e."
"He would almost listen to nothing more about the marvels of Nature, and an express order from the Pope in virtute sanctae obedientiae was needed to extract from him the observations."
"those whose brain is not occupied by deep traces belonging to visible things."
"One finds wine pleasant, another abhors it; and the same person who finds it pleasant when he is well finds it bitter when in a fever and so on for the other senses."
"Has a simple gentleman, who can remember long winded discourses by heart, and word for word."
"the defmitions, postulates, axioms, and the first eight propositions of the first book of Euclid's Elements."
"By eternity, I mean existence itself, in so far as it is conceived necessarily to follow solely from the definition of that which is eternal."
"But, it will be urged, it is impossible that solely from the laws of nature considered as extended substance, we should be able to deduce the causes of buildings, pictures, and things of that kind, which are produced only by human art; nor would the human body, unless it were determined and led by the mind, be capable of building a single temple."
"This last comparison was proposed by Peter Bertius, then an Armenian, but finally a member of the Roman communion."
"The first thing he would do would be to examine the color, odor, taste, and other sensible qualities, both of the honey and of the salt, asking how they agree, how they differ, and the relations they might have with other bodies."
"nothing can either be or be conceived; therefore."
"Indignation is hatred towards one who has done evil to another."
"And as a multitude of laws often only hampers justice, so that a state is best governed when, with few laws"
"Self love can be divided into two species, namely, love of grandeur and love of pleasure; or into the love of one's being, and the perfection of one's being, and into the love of one's well being or felicity."
"observations teach us that neither the sun, nor the earth, nor Jupiter revolves as fast as is required by Kepler's rule in my view"
"; therefore, an emotion towards a thing which we conceive simply is, other conditions being equal, greater than one, which we feel towards what is necessary, possible, or contingent, and, consequently, it is the greatest of all."
"If he be considered without a Redeemer, we clearly see him to be incapable of society with God, and to be incapable by himself of the least power to reconcile himself with God."
"If the primitive passions the combination of which produces all the others could not vary in degree, there would be no difficulty in determining how many passions there are."
"Now, since the passions justify themselves, and since disordered imaginings are pleasing only in their disorder, we cannot judge soundly of things as long as the brain preserves the violent impression it has received."
"Let us make use of a comparison from geometry."
"For, as we have said, when the image of the thing in question, is aroused, inasmuch as it involves the thing's existence, it determines the man to regard the thing with the same pain as he was wont to do, when it actually did exist."
"Corollary I. Envy, derision, contempt, anger, revenge, and other emotions attributable to hatred, or arising therefrom, are bad; this is evident from xxxix."
"For I am convinced that the mind should not be employed except on subjects suited to its capacity."
"I admit that he found great causes of trouble in his family and that remorse for having crushed the Republic may have tormented him; but I think that he was too wise to grieve over the former, and that Maecenas apparently made him understand that Rome had need of a master."
"In order to do so, I must premise a few propositions concerning the nature of bodies."
"The two general ways ofpresening evidence in the search after truth, which will be the main topic of this book."
"A learned physician of Holland named Johan van Beverwyck took the trouble to write De Termino Vitae and to collect sundry answers, letters and discourses of some learned men of his time on this subject."
"I say that these conclusions are true, assuming that the square has four angles, and that the marble tower is possible, just as they reply that God exists, assuming that He exists,.e."
"the more one is advanced in knowledge; for, at the commencement, it is better to make use only of what is spontaneously presented to our senses, and of which we cannot remain ignorant, provided we bestow on it any reflection, however slight, than to concern ourselves about more uncommon and recondite phenomena: the reason of which is, that the more uncommon often only mislead us so long as the causes of the more ordinary are still unknown; and the circumstances upon which they depend are almost always so special and minute as to be highly difficult to detect."
"He believes that the present confusion in this world below began when the Presiding Angel of the globe of the earth, which was still a sun (that is, a star that was fixed and luminous of itself) committed a sin with some lesser angels of his department, perhaps rising inopportunely against an angel of a greater sun; that simultaneously, by the Pre established Harmony of the Realms of Nature and of Grace, and consequently by natural causes occurring at the appointed time, our globe was covered with stains, rendered opaque and driven from its place; which has made it become a wandering star or planet,"
"The Search after For example, they respond boldly and without hesitation to these obscure or indeterminate questions: Why does the sun attract vapors, quinquina arrest sleeping sickness, rhubarb purge bile, and polychrestral salts cure phlegm?"
"the greater the perfection"
"There are two kinds of questions: simple and complex."
"that does everything in all things, that there is but one sovereign Reason in which all intelligences participate, that there is but"
"For in other passages he compares, following Saint Augustine, the light of God, which is God Himself, to the light of the sun that surrounds us, but that we do not see if we are blind or if we close our eyes because overwhelmed with its brilliance, In sole oculos clausos tenemus."
"Now the swelling of the muscles is so visible and sensible in the agitations of our arms and all partsofourbodies, and it is so reasonable to believe that these muscles cannot swell themselves unless some body enters them, just as a balloon cannot be blown up or become inflated unless entered by air or something else, that it seems indubitable that the nerves push the animal spirits from the brain into the muscles to inflate them and to produce in them all the movements we wish to make."
"They impugn the truth with the image of truth; and, while sometimes mocking in their hearts what everyone The Search after respects, they establish a reputation in the minds of men that is the more solid and fearful, as the thing that they have abused is more holy."
"Bayle against vague indifference, as much for the elucidation of the subject as to confront him with himself, and to demonstrate that he ought therefore not to complain of the alleged necessity imposed upon God, of choosing the best way that is possible."
"I declare, finally, that I have a great deal of respect for some works of Tertullian, especially his apology against the gentiles and his book of prescriptions against the heretics, as well as for some portions of Seneca's books, although I do not have very much esteem for Montaigne's book."
"But pleasure seduces us and makes us love them, the blind and inordinate love of pleasure being the true cause of the false judgments of men in moral subjects."
"This is proved by innumerable observations experimenta that there is no need to go into here."
"Experience shows that these two hemispheres are joined to each other in such a way that several horses, harnessed to them with buckles, some on one side and some on the other, cannot separate them, assuming the hemispheres to be large in proportion to the number of horses."
"The reason forth is is that all moving bodies, or all bodies tending to move, always travel in a straight line when they find equal resistance in all directions, and that they are always diverted in the direction in which they find the least resistance."
", the opinions I oppose to his own, muJ the holdness"
"There is reason to believe that nerve filaments are hollow like little canals and are completely filled with animal spirits, especially when one is awake; that when the end of these filaments is disturbed, the spirits contained in them transmit to the brain the vibrations they have received from without."
"Hence doctors, even the most learned of them, knowing this fancy of men, find themselves obliged to speak as cheats and ig Ch."
"It is a common notion to all men who use their reason rather than their senses that nothing can be annihilated by the ordinary forces of nature; for just as it is naturally impossible for something to be made from nothing, so it is also impossible for a substance or a being to become nothing."
"(It is the aim of the opposer, for he wishes to demonstrate that the Mystery is false; but this cannot here be the aim of the defender, for in admitting Mystery he agrees that one cannot demonstrate it.)"
"For if this impression were invincible, we would have no impulse to lead us to God, although He gives us impulse only for Himself; and we would be required to stop at particular goods, although God, order, and reason prohibit us from doing so."
"Suarez, and the others already cited."
"With regard to this they make their own particular observations, which I would, nevertheless, counsel none to trust too much."
"Now, truths are but relations of equality or inequality between these intelligible beings (since it is true that twice two is four or that twice two is not five only because there is a Nee natura potest justo secemere iniquum.'' lucretius."
"But it should be especially noted that the mind's general idea of this infinite number of different kinds of triangles suffices to prove that if we do not conceive of all these different triangles by means of particular ideas, in short, if we do not comprehend the infinite, the fault does not lie with our ideas, and that our failure to grasp the infinite is only for lack of capacity and scope of mind."
"But as this natural means of searching after truth is very troublesome, and is ordinarily useful only in resolving questions oflittle use (the knowledge of which serves more often to flatter our pride than to perfect our minds), I believe that to finish this work usefully, I must say that the shortest and surest method to discover the truth and to unite oneself to God in the most pure and perfect manner possible is to live as a true Christian: it is to follow closely the precepts of the eternal which united itself with us only to reunite us with it."
"Anows shot at the sun cannot reach it."
"We must consider the formation of the most agitated bodies, whose motion is spread among those that arc fermented."
"The mind of man likewise contains two faculties; the first, which is the understanding, is that of receiving various ideas."
"Further, as it tells us that each should be content with his own, and helpful to his neighbour, not from any womanish pity, favour, or superstition, but solely by the guidance of reason, according as the time and occasion demand, as I will show in Part."
"Can we say that he would persuade us that God formed the first chicken by immediate creation of an egg to which He gave a certain degree of heat in order to make it hatch, just because He tries to discover the nature of chickens in their formation?"
"We have seen already that the freedom he assigned to the soul, and his comparison of the cylinder, did not preclude the possibility that in reality all the acts of the human will were unavoidable consequences of fate."
"If we have a clear and distinct understanding of this, that part of our nature which is defined by intelligence, in other words the better part of ourselves, will assuredly acquiesce in what befalls us, and in such acquiescence will endeavour to persist."
"Only devils, and participants in the rites of devils, are pleased by being worshiped, and to wish that other men be preoccupied with us is to wish to be worshiped not from an exterior and visible adoration but from an interior and true one; it is to wish to be adored as God wishes to be adored,.e."
"and Lemma after xiii.)"
"Where I Say: That Prevenient Delight Is the Grace of Jesus Christ Contents"
"and this great gulf between us and God in this state, could somehow be explained by what we have just said."
", the mind will again regard the external body as present, and will do so, as often as the fluid parts of the human body impinge on the aforesaid surfaces by their own spontaneous motion."
"E.D. Two or more distinct things are distinguished one from the other, either by the difference of the attributes of the substances, or by the difference of their modifications."
"Bayle, however, adds here towards the end a remark which somewhat spoils his eminently reasonable statement. '"
"and note), or for other causes (of which the chief are enumerated in lv."
"Therefore, it is only God who is the true cause and who truly has the power to move bodies."
"The Emperor Marcus Aurelius gave expression to that in the eighth chapter of the fifth book of his Meditations. '"
"The mind often confuses very different things when they occur at the same time and are not altogether contrary."
"And this is also what experiment shows, when filings of iron are scattered around a magnet; for these filings make the path of these tiny invisible bodies visible."
"those that im oll fewer relations, and nn er adrancing to the more complex before haring distinctly recogni::.ed the simplest anding become familiar wit/ them."
"Is to give an animal entirely useless parts or to freeze fruit after completely forming it to act according to wisdom and order?"
"The same person also says in book."
"Common sense and experience assure us that the best way of not being hun with the pain of a pinprick is not to prick oneself."
"A classification of all the ways external objects can be sun."
"This is all very well, to be sure."
"Hence it is that I cannot in any degree approve of those restless and busy meddlers who, called neither by birth nor fortune to take part in the management of public affairs, are yet always projecting reforms; and if I thought that this tract contained aught which might justify the suspicion that I was a victim of such folly, I would by no means permit its publication."
"Christians do not philosophize in this way."
"Fire, says Aristotle, is light by its nature; upward motion is simple; fire is therefore a simple body, since the motion must be proportioned to the movable."
"The main law on which dioptrics is based is that the sines of all angles of incidence, whatever the obliqueness they might have, individually have the same ratio to their sine of refraction."
"Now to know whether a man has traveled quickly or slowly it does not suffice to know the distance between Paris and St. Germain; besides this, the time spent in traveling must be known."
"Original Sin, or the disorder of nature, therefore has no need of proof; for each of us is sufficiently aware of a law in himself that captures and disorders him, a law not established by God because it is contrary to the immutable order of justice, which is the inviolable rule for all His volitions."
"It is as evident, then, that there is a God as it is to me that I am."
"Consequently, ifthere is sufficient space between A and, the soul will be unable by this means to know whether the object is near or."
"He even erased from his mind the ideas of sensible things when he so wished, whether he was making use of them or not; for order would have it so."
"We have a great example of what I have just said in the damnation of an infinite number of people whom God has allowed to perish during the centuries of error."
"It would be easy enough to find very probable reasons for the principal effects that the mixing of the chyle with the blood produces in the animal spirits, and then in the brain and the soul itself, such as why wine cheers us, why it gives the mind a certain vivacity when taken in moderation, but brutalizes it after a while if taken in excess, why one is sleepy after eating, and of many other similar things, for which quite ridiculous reasons are ordinarily given."
"What can be done with arithmetic only in a great deal of time can be done in a minute with algebra and analysis, without the mind becoming entangled in manipulating numbers in lengthy operations."
"Hence it follows that there are certain ideas or notions common to all men; for (by Lemma ii.)"
", by pain; consequently he is himself affected by pain accompanied by the idea of the hater of the beloved thing as cause; that is, he will hate him who hates anything which he himself loves."
"But as there may be an infinity of causes that can prevent very much of the first element from entering this star of which we are speaking, it is necessary for the parts of the first element that are forced to stay there to adapt themselves to move in a single direction, which is how they become attached and bound to each other, and form spots that, thickening into crusts, gradually cover the center By 'quator"
"For a wise person in laying his plans cannot separate the end from the means; he does not contemplate any end without knowing if there are means of attaining thereto."
"If it is certain that this delicacy of the brain fibers is the principal cause of all these effects."
"although its image continuously increases on my retina, and the height of this image is ten times greater when I am not more than ten steps from it than when I was a hundred."
"This state of things gave rise to the exclamation of the poet:"
"(that is, my mind, which for the moment I take to be identical with my self to inhabit."
"An explication of three kinds of sensations in the soul."
"In the it is proved that all those things we clearly and distinctly perceive are true, and at the same time it is explained in what falsity consists."
"Bayle carries the notion of freedom too far:"
"After that it is no wonder that there are very many doubts which the human race cannot abandon."
"The senses afflict them as much as other men (for they are indeed men), but they scorn the reports the senses make to them."
"It is the same, in a sense, with the blessed; they are still less capable of sinning, and the necessity that forbids them to sin is of the same kind."
"But as there are only too many people who are inclined to believe that the justification of children is only exterior and through imputation because, as they say, they are incapable of forming any act of Jove of God, I feel that it is appropriate to show them that this opinion of theirs is mere prejudice."
"But I feel I must say that should one have traversed the entire universe and have discovered all the marvelous arrangments of matter including the animals of which one sees an infinity hundreds of millions of times smaller than a fly."
", it appears to me that I have discovered many truths more useful and more important than all I had before learned, or even had expected to learn."
"The Search after represented on the fundus of lhe eye are too close, or else it should be flattened when the objects are too far away."
"Bodies are indifferent as to whether they are moved or not, whether in one direction or the other."
"It is certain, then, that a sensalion that is enjoyable to one person is enjoyable to everyone who feels it, but, on account of the different disposition of the sense organs, the same objects do not produce the sensation for everyone."
"To grasp the truth of what I am suggesting, what I have already proved must be recalled, namely."
"If it is true, as I conceive it to be, that rest is merely the privation of motion, then the slightest movement, I mean that of the tiniest activated body, will contain more force and power than the rest of the largest body."
"I shall merely demonstrate the order we must follow in any study we would wish to make of them, in order always to preserve the evidence in our perceptions."
"Nor will it help us to say with St. Augustine that, all men being involved in the damnation caused by the sin of Adam, God might have left them all in their misery; and that thus his goodness alone induces him to deliver some of them."
"It can be seen from Ibis experiment"
"There is, then, some difficulty in recognizing their difference."
"They think themselves completely possessed of the genealogical history of substantial fonns, and the age is ungrateful if it does not recognize their merit."
"This cause of existence must either be contained in the nature and definition of the thing defined, or must be postulated apart from such definition."
"The same is true of certain philosophers who have maintained chimerical opinions that they reject."
"At that same time an ingenious satire was composed against the Gomarists, entitled Fur praedestinatus, de gepredestineerdedief wherein there is introduced a thief condemned to be hanged, who attributes to God all the evil he has done; who believes himself predestined to salvation notwithstanding his wicked actions; who imagines that this belief is sufficient for him, and who defeats by arguments ad hominem a Counter remonstrant minister called to prepare him for death: but this thief is finally converted by an old pastor who had been dismissed for his Arminianism, whom the gaoler, in pity for the criminal and for the weakness of the minister, had brought to him secretly."
"That is what Luther aptly observed in opposition to Erasmus, saying that it is love in the highest degree to love him who to flesh and blood appears so unlovable, so harsh toward the unfortunate and so ready to condemn, and to condemn for evils in which he appears to be the cause or accessary, at least in the eyes of those who allow themselves to be dazzled by false reasons."
"One would not be greatly mistaken to believe that they contain only truths oflittle use."
"The mind, then, must recognize this son of good without examination, and by the quick and indubitable proof of sensation."
"The invisible ties with which the Author of nature unites all his works are worthy of God's wisdom and men's admiration."
"Descartes had been imbued with the idea in his youth, at the College of la Fl che."
"It is certain that the closer an object is, the larger its species must be, since we see the object as larger."
"This is what is thought by the one esteemed most learned among the Jews."
"Neither is there any need that we should understand their series, for the essences of particular mutable things are not to be gathered from their series or order of existence, which would furnish us with nothing beyond their extrinsic denominations, their relations, or, at most, their circumstances, all of which are very different from their inmost essence."
"nonetheless, provides us with them as a result of our attention."
"This great evil would be that God would have chosen ill if he had chosen otherwise than he has chosen."
"But the accused won his case in a Synod."
"On the contrary, it is obvious that no body has in itself the power of self movement, and that all bodies are indifferent whether they are moved downward or upward, from east to west, or west to east, from the south pole to the north, or in any other conceivable way."
"; therefore, an emotion, whereby the mind is determined to the contemplation of several things at once, is less hurtful than another equally powerful emotion, which so engrosses the mind in the single contemplation of a few objects or of one, that it is unable to think of anything else; this was our first point."
"As far as vision is The aenu of the eu is under liny white spot lhl.t is on the yolk."
"The late Herr Sturm, a famous mathematician in Altorf, while in Holland in his youth published there a small book under the title of Euclides Catholicus."
"In order to explain the second means employed by the soul to judge the distance of objects, it should be known that it is absolutely necessary for the shape of the eye to change with the distance of objects we see; for when a man sees an object nearby, his eyes are necessarily longer, or the crystalline lens is farther from the retina, than if the object were farther away."
", it is to that extent more active and less passive."
"I have thus completed all I wished to set forth touching the mind's power over the emotions and the mind's freedom."
"seeking one's own true interest."
"Very little attention is needed to see that the instruction given children is not the best, yet men do not realize this; opinion and custom prevail over reason and experience."
"Arminius bore the same name as those who are called Hermann to day."
"The foetus forms itself in the animal, and a thousand other wonders of nature are produced by a certain instinct that God has placed there, that is by virtue of divine preformation which has made these admirable automata, adapted to produce mechanically such beautiful effects."
"In the I have explained my principal proof of the existence of God at, I think, considerable length."
"For we must admit that if we protect children from fear, desires, and hopes, if we make them suffer no pain and keep them as far removed as possible from their little pleasures, they could be taught the most difficult and abstract things, or the least intuitive mathematics, mechanics, and other such things necessary in the pursuit of life, as soon as they could speak."
"Again, as it may happen."
"When one has meditated on some subject for a long time and is satisfied about the things one wanted to know, one often thinks of it no more."
"thai judges by assenting to the confused, compound perceptions of the understanding."
"This proposition is evident from the third axiom."
"For without that it would be impossible for magnet (d) to draw near magnet (C)."
"But seeing that they are a prey to their emotions, which far surpass human power or virtue."
"It appears from this same mythology that these two princes contended for long, but that neither of them was victorious."
"As for the idea found in conjunction with the sensation, it is in God, and we see it because it pleases God to reveal it to us."
"If it were possible', he says, 'for all men, neglecting the affairs of life, to apply themselves to study and meditation, one need seek no other way to make them accept the Christian religion."
"He sometimes distributes a great number of them, which nonetheless produce but very little effect in relation to our salvation."
"we shall endeavour to conceive it as far as possible as present or actually existing."
"If one made a cut in the cheek even larger than the mouth, this opening will gradually close."
"Sin has caused this disorder, as I have just explained in the preceding chapter, and it is this disorder that is the main cause not only of all our heart's derangements but also of our mind's blindness and ignorance."
"However, no one has hitherto laid down the limits to the powers of the body, that is, no one has as yet been taught by experience what the body can accomplish solely by the laws of nature, in so far as she is regarded as extension."
"Here are some proofs of this."
"because they are gi, en to us by tire Author of Nature."
"it is enough to consider that, after the solutions I have given, nothing must seem more right or more exact than this method."
"And if one does well through having preferred a tumultuous instinct, which arose suddenly, to reasons maturely considered, one feels an extraordinary joy in this; for one assumes that either God, or our Guardian Angel, or something or other which one pictures to oneself under the vague name of good luck has impelled us thereto."
"This proposition may also be proved from I.v., in which it is shown that there cannot be two substances of the same nature; for as there may be many men, the being of substance is not that"
"Would it not be the ultimate ingratitude to receive the bounty of all things from this excellent creature and to have for it no feeling of gratefulness?"
"The first perplexes almost all the human race, the other exercises philosophers only."
"This I have proved elsewhere."
"If, therefore, the being of substance appertains to the essence of man, substance being granted, man would necessarily be granted also."
"When, therefore, the mind is assailed by any emotion, the body is at the same time affected with a modification whereby its power of activity is increased or diminished."
"I shall give you instructions and orders; but the free will that I have bestowed upon you is of such a nature that you have equal power (according to circumstances) to obey me and to disobey me."
"exhibited on the theater of the world; and, as I made it my business in each matter to reflect particularly upon what might fairly be doubted and prove a source of error, I gradually rooted out from my mind"
"It agitates the brain, instantly changes the entire bodily disposition of those struck by it, and even makes them run to help without thinking."
"for it necessarily wishes to be happy."
", they come to look on the whole of nature as a means for obtaining such conveniences."
"We should not be surprised at our errors, then, since we base our reasoning here on premises that are not known precisely."
"The particular passions and, in general, how to recognize and to give an account of the errors they cause."
"Furthermore, it is clear that the idea, or immediate object of our mind."
"When these have been explained, we shall have given sufficient opening for the mind to proceed further, and each will be able to see at a glance, and with great ease, the very hidden causes of many particular errors, that one could not otherwise explain without much time and trouble."
"This also ought to make us the more esteem the divine contrivance of the mechanism of animals, whose Author has made machines so fragile and so subject to corruption and yet so capable of maintaining themselves: for it is Nature which cures us rather than medicine."
"It must therefore know God and sense bodies."
"sub isiO tot civitatum everson:"
"Let our minds know Him from whom they receive everything capable of making them happier and more perfect, and let them realize the full extent of their dependence on God, who continually gives them all that they now have, for as a great saint says in another context, it is culpable pride to use the things that God gives us as if they were natura/to us."
"Mr. Hyde in his book on the religion of the ancient Persians tries to justify this magic, and to clear it not only of the crime of impiety but also of idolatry."
"And we ought not to confound speech with the natural movements which indicate the passions, and can be imitated by machines as well as manifested by animals; nor must it be thought with certain of the ancients, that the brutes speak, although we do not understand their language."
"ll must retain tire lrypotlresis tlrat is a/reCllly accepted."
"For instance, according as we have seen it, or are about to see it, according as it has recreated us, or will recreate us, according as it has harmed us, or will harm us."
"this result follows from another idea, which excludes the present existence of our body and, consequently, of our mind, and which is therefore contrary to the idea constituting the essence of our mind."
"All that remains for us then, after having believed in the Mysteries by reason of the proofs of the truth of religion (which are called 'motives of credibility') is to be able to uphold them against objections."
"Now there is every reason to conclude unquestionably that one would find through this consideration, if only it were attainable, that reasons most just, and stronger than those which appear contrary to them, have compelled the All Wise to permit the evil, and even to do things which have facilitated it."
"We do not know them through the senses, and even less by reason, as we have absolutely no distinct idea of them."
"What I have just said of courtiers should also be understood of most servants with regard to their masters, maids with regard to their mistresses, and (in order to avoid useless enumeration)"
"Deum namque ire per omnes Terrasque tractusque maris caelumque profundum:"
"It Is Dangerous to Consult Them and to Follow Them On the Third Chapter of the Fifth Book."
"A ruler devoted to the interests of virtue, and to the good of his subjects, takes the utmost care to ensure that they never disobey his laws; and if he must needs chastise them for their disobedience, he sees to it that the penalty cures them of the inclination to evil, and restores in their soul a strong and constant tendency towards good"
"The difficulties on the composition of the continuum enter also into this matter."
"From the fact that we have an idea of a thing, it does not follow that the thing exists and still less that it is entirely like our idea of it."
"It may be that the crust formed by the cooling, having below it great cavities, fell in, so that we live only on ruins, as among others Thomas Burnet, Chaplain to the late King of Great Britain, aptly observed."
"This author can be read with profit by those who see things correctly and know the foundation of Christian morality."
"and even prostrate themselves before them, imagining that they were thereby making themselves pleasing to Him who created them.''"
"But God has given us a body, and by this body has joined us to all sensible things."
"God cannot, properly speaking, be offended that is, injured, disturbed, disquieted or angered; and he detests nothing of that which exists, in the sense that to detest something is to look upon it with abomination and in a way that causes us disgust, that greatly pains and distresses us; for God cannot suffer either vexation, or grief or discomfort; he is always altogether content and at ease."
"The connexion and order of things brings it about that the body of every animal and of every plant is composed of other animals and of other plants, or of other living and organic beings; consequently there is subordination, and one body, one substance serves the other: thus their perfection cannot be equal."
"wherewith they are concerned, have no contraries."
"Therefore a being absolutely infinite in other words, God (Def. vi.)"
"This is all that can be said in general about figures at hand and close to our eyes; but if they are at a distance from us, how much change shall we find in the projection they make on the fundus of our eyes?"
"Why is it that the richest, noblest, most powerful, and generally all those who are raised above others, quite often believe themselves to be infallible, and comport themselves as though they were much more reasonable than those of a low or mediocre station, unless it is because we indifferently and loosely approve all their thoughts?"
"And it likewise follows from this that the location of the image of an object two feet from the lens is quite different from that only a half foot from it, and that if the lens had a focus of a half foot, the image, after having passed through an infinite space, would be dissipated."
"Note Empty honour, as it is styled, is self approval, fostered only by the good opinion of the populace; when this good opinion ceases there ceases also the self approval, in other words, the highest object of each man's love."
"We can say then, as does Saint Paul, that through man sin has entered into the world; but nonetheless because of this communication it must also be said that sin comes from woman, that through her we are subject to death, and that our mother has concei ed us in iniquity, as it is put in other places in Scripture."
"Th arch aft there are two kinds of troths, those that are necessary and those that are contingent."
"Consequently, there must be an essential difference between honey and salt, since what I perceive in each differs not merely quantitatively, but essentially."
"The idea of some good we possess produces joyous Jove."
"Besides, nothing is so weak as those systems where all is unsteady and full of exceptions."
"Nonetheless, we see them as equal, and we are not deceived."
"You have these and several other powers, but it is certain that neither you nor anyone else will use them."
"However, if we proceed with as little abstraction as possible, and begin from primary elements that is, from the source and origin of nature, as far back as we can reach, we need not fear any deceptions of this kind."
"For if those who imagine they have become cocks, wolves, and oxen take extreme pleasure in the actions these animals customarily perform, although they are completely contrary to the nature of man, it can easily be judged that we are far from condemning the behavior of those who through the contagion of their imagination have made us to some extent like them; for in condemning them we realize that we would condemn ourselves."
"Now, in so far as such omens are the cause of hope or fear, they are (by the definitions of hope and fear given in note) the causes also of pleasure and pain; consequently we, to this extent, regard them with love or hatred, and endeavour either to invoke them as means towards that which we hope for, or to remove them as obstacles, or causes of that which we fear."
"He who thinks that he has given just cause for hatred will."
"those who struck him, hun him."
"They ate thereof nevertheless, and thenceforth they were condemned, they and all their posterity, to the miseries of this life, to temporal death and eternal damnation, and made subject to such a tendency to sin that they abandoned themselves thereto endlessly and without ceasing.'"
"What follows is roughly the way"
"For every idea that reveals the truth comes from the truth itself."
"This impulse, never ceasing, necessarily imparts a continual agitation to the mind; the will, searching out what it desires, obliges the understanding to represent to itself all sorts of objects."
"It is rather as we rely upon the experience of those who have seen China and on the credibility of their account when we give credence to the wonders that are told us of that distant country."
"The most extreme effect of the force of the imagination is the unreasonable fear of the apparition of ghosts, spells, characters, charms, lycanthropes, or werewolves, and generally of everything we imagine to depend upon the power of the devil."
"One must then admit that it depended altogether upon God's freedom to combine particular thoughts of our soul with particular modifications of our body, even when he had once established all the laws for the action of bodies one upon another."
"Indeed, we look at them as rare men; we compliment them on their profound erudition; we listen to them more willingly than to others; and although it can be said that they are usually the least judicious of men (as would be the case if only because they spend their entire lives in such a useless task, which can make them neither wiser nor happier), nevertheless they are imagined to be more intelligent and judicious than other people."
"But things that are simultaneously characterized both by greatness and novelty not only agitate us, they overwhelm us with the disturbances they produce in us."
"You deny that it was true yesterday that I should write to day; it was therefore false.'"
"Its motion, as has just been said, always proceeds in a straight line; and when it is impeded from continuing in this way, it describes the greatest possible circular path and consequently most approximates a straight line, because God impresses its motion on it and controls its direction."
"Lastly, if the desire to avoid a future evil be checked by the fear of another evil, so that the man knows not which to choose, fear becomes consternation, especially if both the evils feared be very great."
"But it must first be well noted that air is not necessary to strike a small spark of fire, though in the absence of air the spark is immediately extinguished and cannot be communicated even to gun powder, however flammable it might be."
"in Cata/ogo de script Eccl. ch.)"
"It bore great fruit and on this matter converted that Elector, at that time still a simple canon and afterwards Bishop of rzburg, finally also Archbishop of Mainz, who, as soon as he came to power, put an end to these burnings."
"They swear by the Styx, Di cujus"
"One should not make use of it to support prejudices."
"But what then will Sextus say?"
"These agitated spirits are conducted into the brain by the sensible perception of the object or by the force of the imagination in such a way as to form deep traces representing this object."
"highest endeavour of the mind, is to understand things by the third kind of knowledge."
", in God, since only God contains the intelligible world, where the ideas of all things are located."
"The first course is that taken by the Molinists, the other is that of the Thomists and Jansenists and the Protestants of the Geneva Confession."
"According to this conception of things, all the difficulties that can here be made amount to the same as those I have already stated and removed in my inquiry concerning the origin of evil."
"Parents and friends are closely bound to each other."
"In this respect they are like the ivy which never strives to rise above the tree that sustains it, and which frequently even returns downwards when it has reached the top; for it seems to me that they also sink, in other words, render themselves less wise than they would be if they gave up study, who, not contented with knowing all that is intelligibly explained in their author, desire in addition to find in him the solution of many difficulties of which he says not a word, and never perhaps so much as thought."
"reasons, wills, and soon."
"Summary of My Proofs for, and Explanations of, Original Sin."
"Hence I saw that at some stage in my life the whole structure would have to be utterly demolished, and that I should have to begin again from the bottom up if I wished to construct something lasting and unshakeable in the sciences."
"We must work out our own perfection and do wrong to no man."
"I grant that one is in evil case while one makes these peevish reflexions; but that does not exclude a previous state of well being, nor imply that, everything reckoned in and all allowance made, the good does not exceed the evil."
"Concerning grace and predestination, I justify the most debatable assertions, as for instance: that we are converted only through the prevenient grace of God and that we cannot do good except with his aid; that God wills the salvation of all men and that he condemns only those whose will is evil; that he gives to all a sufficient grace provided they wish to use it; that, Jesus Christ being the source and the centre of election, God destined the elect for salvation, because he foresaw that they would cling with a lively faith to the doctrine of Jesus Christ."
"That reason is not instructed by the body, that even the part of the body to which the soul is immediately joined is neither perceptible nor intelligible by itself, that neither our body nor those surrounding it can be our mind's immediate object, that we cannot learn from our brain whether it actually exists, much less whether there are bodies surrounding us; that we must therefore recognize that there is some superior intelligence that alone is capable of acting on us, and that can act on us in such a way as to truly represent to us bodies outside us, without giving us the least idea of our brain, though the motion produced in our brain is an occasion for this intelligence to reveal these bodies to us."
"Behold, I set before you the way of life, and the way of death' (Jer."
"nos injurias non esse."
"Let us beseech Him who is the way, the truth, and the life, in order to know whether the path we are following does not lead us to death, and whether we have reason to believe (since God is essentially just and necessarily obliged to punish anything inconsistent with order and to reward anything agreeing with it) that we are going to increase or ensure our happiness through the action we would perform."
"As to its nature, in so far as it is referred to the mind only, we shall presently inquire."
"Def.), not inasmuch as he is infinite, but inasmuch as he is conceived as affected by the given idea."
"That which cannot be conceived through anything else must be conceived through itself."
"E.D. Desire arising from the knowledge of good and evil, in so far as such knowledge regards what is future, may be more easily controlled or quenched, than the desire for what is agreeable at the present moment."
"Whatsoever we understand by the third kind of knowledge, we take delight in, and our delight is accompanied by the idea of God as cause."
"The books that I have seen have not satisfied me, not even the famous Boethius, who meets with general approval."
"I discovered at the same time that the laws of motion actually existing in Nature, and confirmed by experiments, are not in reality absolutely demonstrable, as a geometrical proposition would be; but neither is it necessary that they be so."
"for since the presence of ideas to our mind is natural and depends on the general will of God, which is always firm and immutable, we shall always have ideas to discover things that are naturally subjects for reason."
"We see this clearly enough through experience, though reason seems to disagree, and practically all of men's actions are conclusive, visible proofs of it"
"Bayle, 'preach the glory, the power, the oneness of God.'"
"In the transition from enjoyment of music to enjoyment of painting, or vice versa from the pleasure of the eyes to that of the ears, the degree of enjoyment may remain the same, the latter gaining no advantage over the former save that of novelty."
"Each perfection or imperfection in the creature has its value, but there is none that has an infinite value."
"The current is the cause of the boat's movement, but not of its retardation; God is the cause of perfection in the nature and the actions of the creature, but the limitation of the receptivity of the creature is the cause of the defects there are in its action."
"and as an intelligent being could not conceivably have willed to produce such a thing, so a mind or thought without volition would clearly be altogether useless."
"Every idea of a modification of the human body involves the nature of the human body, in so far as the human body is regarded as affected in a given manner."
"Wherefore, and vice vers"
"if we could, on the basis of this actual knowledge and not of other knowledge we might have drawn from elsewhere, instanta neously produce an infinity of precise inferences, and at the same time act in ourselves according to these precise inferences and give ourselves all the different perceptions, whether confused or distinct, that we have of objects we see at a glance perceptions of their size, figure, distance, motion or rest, and all their various colors."
"Now it is only the genuinely good"
"Therefore those who believe, that they speak or keep silence or act in any way from the free decision of their mind, do but dream with their eyes open."
"If we look to men's general opinion, we shall see that they are indeed conscious of the eternity of their mind, but that they confuse eternity with duration, and ascribe it to the imagination or the memory which they believe to remain after death."
"Prospicere ut possimus, et ut proferre viai."
"there is scandalum datum et scandalum acceptum . '"
"In short, it has all the properties that seem to be required for a given body to be known as distinctly as possible."
"Thus, it thinks that it perceives nothing."
"There was a philosopher who said that it is a weakness to be ashamed of infamous actions."
"For according to Aristotle, that is termed natural which conforms most closely to the perfection of the nature of the thing; but Mr. Hobbes applies the term natural state to that which has least art, perhaps not taking into account that human nature in its perfection carries art with it."
"From the latter it must follow, either that a triangle necessarily exists, or that it is impossible that it should exist."
"to approve them, and even to defend them with greater obstinacy and passion than they do themselves."
"These are all the means we have for judging the distance of objects, and their considerable defects have been noted."
"This proposition is evident from Prop. of this Part."
"accompanied by the idea of himself, that is (I. and Def.), the idea of his own cause: now this is what we have (in Coroll.)"
"Finally, men's different occupations and stations in life, as well as the different disposition of their spirits, make a considerable difference in the sensible union they have with terrestrial good."
"But the mind need not stop with the eyes, for the mind's vision is much more extensive that the body's."
"But if the knowledge of continuity is important for speculative enquiry, that of necessity is none the less so for practical application; and it, together with the questions therewith connected, to wit, the freedom of man and the justice of God, forms the object of this treatise."
"Further, this hatred towards the object of love will be greater, in proportion to the pleasure which the jealous man had been wont to derive from the reciprocated love of the said object; and also in proportion to the feelings he had previously entertained towards his rival."
"They are always present to the mind, but the mind perceives them only in an unsolvable confusion due to its own pettiness and the greatness of the idea of being."
"They pass from an inclination toward philosophy to one for An. of lhc Religion of lhc Anslicu church. '"
"That complete consent should be gi en only to things that appear altogether clear, and from which we cannot withhold consent without reali::.ing witlr complete certainty that we would misuse our freedom in not granting it."
"It must be remembered that the strong inclination we have for diversions, pleasures, and generally for everything that affects our senses, throws us into a great many errors because, the capacity of our minds being limited, this inclina speak hcle according to the opinion of those who believe that the chicken is formed from the eg, although it is perhaps only nourished by it."
"But if the affirmations of necessary truths were actions of the will of the most perfect mind, these actions would be anything but free, for there is nothing to choose."
"cannot exist without fear; therefore."
"But there is no indication that any precise rules have yet been defined which the rival parties accept or reject with regard to the use of reason in the interpretation of Holy Scripture."
"In our knowledge of the truth, therefore, we must avail ourselves of something that is sensible but that is not too glamorous, and that does not root us to the sensible but is capable only of sustaining our mind's perception in its contemplation of purely intelligible truths."
"For in so far as the soul has perfection and distinct thoughts, God has accommodated the body to the soul, and has arranged beforehand that the body is impelled to execute its orders."
"They are distributed mainly in the heart, the liver, the spleen, and the nerves surrounding the main arteries."
"who alone is worthy of its auention, and who has no fear that those who know Him will not find Him worthy of esteem"
"Now this faculty cannot, certainly, exist in myself, because it presupposes no intellection at all, and because these ideas are produced not only without my cooperation but often even against my will."
"Note In the Appendix to Part I."
": consequently, he who knows things by this kind of knowledge passes to the summit of human perfection, and is therefore (Def."
"Still, on the other hand, we cannot deny that ideas, like objects, differ one from the other, one being more excellent than another and containing more reality, just as the object of one idea is more excellent than the object of another idea, and contains more reality."
"Th venot asked of him."
"realize that even those who most respect the works of Tertullian agree with all this and that they are too fairminded to support the disorders of the imagination against Reason."
"Viii lllld above, bit."
"Consequently, all that we do when we sin is not to do all that we nonetheless have the power of doing as a result of the natural impression we have toward Him who contains all goods, which impression gives us this power, for we can do nothing except through the power we receive from our union with Him who does all things in us."
"And perhaps there are people who not only took the trouble to know what Aristotle believed about the subject but even considered it very important to know whether, for example, Tertullian and Plutarch or others thought it was Aristotle's opinion that the soul was mortal, as there is good reason to think, even from La Cerda, if one reflects on the last part of the passage just cited, Porro Tertullianum, and the rest."
"The final error of studious persons."
"Finally, many more humors leave the body through the imperceptible pores of the arteries and skin than leave through the other passages of the body, and even the most solid metals do not have such constricted pores that there are no natural bodies small enough to pass freely through them, since otherwise these pores would be closed."
"But as for me, holding as I do that God did the best that was possible, or that he could not have done better than he has done,"
"or an ordained evil in nature."
"Truly I should like him to explain this union through its proximate cause."
"These ideas vanish, and as the imagination stirs up livelier and more sensible ideas, the ideas of abstract truths then seem to be only wraiths exciting fear and mistrust."
"; and the periods of their existence."
"Therefore, it is not we who make them but God alone who makes them for us."
"non pertinere ad voluntatem libertatem nostram, quod beati esse volumus, quia id omnino nolle non possumus, nescio qua bona constrictione naturae."
"Potest autem cognosci non solum secundum quod in se est, sed secundum quod est partic:ipabilis, secundum aliquem modum similitudinis a creaturis."
"And if, while we sense our freedom with regard to a particular good, we must doubt that we are free because we have no clear idea of our freedom, then we would also have to doubt our pain and our existence while we are miserable, because we have no clear idea of our soul or of our pain, but only an inner sensation of them."
"Ordinary experiments are little worthy of their application, but these rare and surprising experiments, which can never enlighten the mind, they observe with the greatest care."
"The famous passage of Tertullian De Carne Christi, 'mortuus est Dei filius, credibile est, quia ineptum est; et sepultus revixit, certum est, quia impossibile', is a sally that can only be meant to concern appearances of absurdity."
"I am surprised that."
"The particular passions we have for poetry."
"Perhaps one might put an end to this dispute at once by saying that, properly speaking, all the decrees of God that are here concerned are simultaneous, not only in respect of time, as everyone agrees, but also in signo rationis or in the order of nature."
"For the square of the applicates (or ordinates) to the diameter, which indicate the time and regular motion from A toward will be equal to the rectangle formed on the parameter by the lines indicating the unequal and accelerated motions; and the squares of the applicates.e., the squares of the times, will stand to each other as do the parts of the diameter between the pole and the applicates."
"I even know that God will never make a mind that does not desire to be happy."
"Some (like Campanella) have called these three perfections of God the three primordialities."
"They neglect to learn the most common histories of their own time, but they seek a perfect understanding of the fables and fictions of poets."
"commends a remark by Herr Pfanner (whom he calls a German theologian, but he is a jurist by profession, Counsellor to the Dukes of Saxony), who censures St. Basil for not being willing to admit that God is the author of physical evil."
"for a substance that thinks is immortal."
"Accordingly, in order to discover what the essence of maner consists in, we need to examine all the properties belonging to it, or included in our idea of it such as hardness, softness, fluidity, motion, rest, figure, divisibility, impenetrability, and extension, and first consider which of all its attributes is inseparable from it."
"If secondary causes did nothing, say Suarez, Fonseca, and some others, we could not distinguish living things from those not living, for neither of them would have an inner principle of their actions."
"Third, this motion of the spirits can be so violent that they occupy the soul's entire capacity."
"But, though this be so, there seems to be no small difficulty in arriving at the knowledge of these particular things, for to conceive them all at once would far surpass the powers of the human understanding."
"For just as a blind man could touch a given body wilh the ends of two straight sticks of unknown length and judge its approximate distance according to a kind of natural geometry by the position of his hands and the distance between lhem, so might the soul be said to judge the distance of an object by the disposition of its eyes, which varies with the angle by which it sees the object, that is, with lhe distance of the object."
"The Meditations Chretiennes, also printed in Lyon in."
"Wherefore the reality (forma) of true thought must exist in the thought itself, without reference to other thoughts; it does not acknowledge the object as its cause, but must depend on the actual power and nature of the understanding."
"It renders them no more guilty or deserving of wrath; they do not cease being just and pleasing to God, for the same reason that we do not lose grace even though we follow the impulse of concupiscence in sleep."
"When a man moves his arm in various ways, it would be necessary, according to this explanation, that he cause a million fermentations, large and tiny, swift and slow, which begin, and (what is still more difficult to explain according to this supposition) which end the moment he wants them to."
"Because they normally take little pleasure in this search."
"To do otherwise would be to sow the seeds of new disputes and quarrels, of which there are already too many."
"The rational quest of what is useful to us further teaches us the necessity of associating ourselves with our fellow men, but not with beasts, or things, whose nature is different from our own; we have the same rights in respect to them as they have in respect to us."
"pleasure in itself is good, andc."
"Small bodies and fluid ones, water, air, and such, can communicate to large bodies only that motion uniform and common to all their parts; the water of a river can communicate to a boat only the movement of descent common to all the tiny particles composing the water, and each of these tiny particles, beyond this common movement, has an infinity of other particular ones."
"Ul Qui hoc videre aon palell, orel A lpi polK maeiiUr, ll"
"For God can only draw His knowledge from Himself."
"To this end, however, it will not be necessary to prove them"
"It is thus my belief that those souls which one day shall be human souls, like those of other species, have been in the seed, and in the progenitors as far back as Adam, and have consequently existed since the beginning of things, always in a kind of organic body."
"Here is the heart of the difficulty."
"With their eyes they see only colors, pictures, and images, but with their mind they consider the ideas corresponding to these sensible objects."
"The same man finds it pleasant tasting when he is in health, and wine is then good for him."
"Yet these expressions in their true sense are justified."
"By this third term, union, I mean once more an unknown something that causes two glasses or two slabs of marole, whose surfaces have been used and polished by rubbing them against each other, to be attached in such a way that even though they can be very easily separated by sliding them, we still have some difficulty doing it in any other way."
"We should, in the same way, reflect on courage as a means of overcoming fear; the ordinary dangers of life should frequently be brought to mind and imagined, together with the means whereby through readiness of resource and strength of mind we can avoid and overcome them."
"Nor is it a fiction, a creation of my own, for I cannot subtract anything from it, or add anything at all to it."
"and of this part would be untrue."
"necessarily comes to pass."
"For if there were only wicked and unhappy people', he says, 'there would be no need to resort to the hypothesis of the two principles.'"
"God wills in this case that, when an angel wills this or that body be moved, it will be moved."
"To be the best, and to be desired by those who are most virtuous and wise, comes to the same thing."
"Yet one must confess that the cylinder of Chrysippus does not answer the objection of necessity."
"Finally, it is also written in the book of Wisdomd that fire had, as it were, forgotten in favor of God's people the power it has to bum."
"Only through the delight provided by the grace of our mediator Jesus Christ do we sensibly perceive that God is our good."
"Another question that appears difficult to resolve is to know whether animals have a soul."
"Thus, the third body, when moved simultaneously by two forces, will describe the full diagonal in the same time that it would the sides when moved by each of the same forces separately."
"Now, the product of infinity and zero is certainly zero, and our capacity for thinking is not zero; it is not null."
"how their growth and developement took place in the following years through the efficacy of such a simple law."
"rather what I will say of it in the th Elucidation from number to the end."
"second, because it is very uncertain; and finally, because I believe it would be better to say nothing about it, even if I were quite certain"
"and at the outset hit upon their perfect conformity with their objects, without the guidance of any cognition; for it would be a contradiction to say that any exemplary cause had served as a plan for the acts of God's understanding."
"In the second place, it is obvious that we must follow the commands of God in order to be happy."
"we mean that the mind's power of thinking is diminished or checked."
"But for my purposes, it is enough to know in general that since the humors of the eye are denser than air, rays undergo in the eye a refraction that gathers them on the axis, and that the refraction of a ray passing from air to the aqueous humor is roughly to to the crystalline to and to the vitreous humor, to or thereabouts."
"But since he was unable to understand how corporeal substances,c which cannot penetrate each other, should be capable of altering each other, Avicebron claims that only minds are capable of acting on bodies because only they can penetrate them."
"Why, for example, does this author, who wishes to justify having assumed the mantle of a philosopher, say that this mantle had formerly been fashionable in the city of Carthage?"
"Here are some examples."
"And I will demonstrate that there is in free actions a perfect spontaneity beyond all that has been conceived hitherto."
"And because I perceive these things better by the senses, from which they seem to have made their way, with the help of memory, to the imagination, in order to examine them more conveniently, I should examine sensation at the same time, and see whether, from those things that are perceived by the form of thinking I call 'sensation', I can derive some decisive argument in favour of the existence of bodily things."
"The hero of the Aeneid proceeds only under the direction of a God."
"They find a thousand reasons to be convinced of this, and the respect paid them by those confused by an unknown term is in no way the least significant though it is the least reasonable of them."
"the mind, inasmuch as it has inadequate ideas, is in certain cases necessarily passive; this was our second point."
"The first reply is that those who say Descartes is contrary to Moses, may not have examined Sacred Scripture and Descartes as well as those who have written to prove that the creation of the world is perfectly consistent with the views of this philosopher."
"Why, then, do they confuse what we Eccles. I. 'Sed neque meipsum judico."
"It must be concluded, then, that the degree of frequency in the vibrations of the optic nerve, or in the disturbances in the spirits contained in it, changes the species of colors, and consequently that the cause ofthese sensations results basically from the more or less frequent vibrations of the subtle matter compressing the retina."
"For there is not everywhere a slave, as in Trimalchio's house in Petronius, to cry to us: the right foot first."
"All trains of reasoning are in God in a transcendent form, and they preserve an order amongst them in his understanding, as well as in ours:"
"For this reason I say here that it is more difficult than one would have thought to prove defmitely that there are bodies, even though our senses might assure us of it, because reason does not so readily assure us as we might think and because reason must be consulted very attentively if we are to be enlightened."
"Or if one wishes a more noble comparison, although perhaps not as accurate, they resemble those famous Romans who had fear and respect for the figments of the imagination, and who foolishly worshiped their emperors after they had released the eagle at their apotheoses."
"; si Preface be no small crime to liken oneself to God bydominating other minds in this way."
"But if in both parts of the axiom human reason is meant, I do not clearly see the soundness of the distinction: for the most orthodox confess that we know not how our Mysteries can conform to the maxims of philosophy."
"Before finishing this chapter, it should be noted that knowledge of the motion and rest of bodies in proportion to their greater proximity to us is very important to the preservation of our life, and that it is of little use to us to know the exact truth about things occurring in faraway places."
"All the mind then does is to freely follow this impression that God gives it."
"the the reasons are set out why we can doubt of all things, especially material things: that is, as long as we have no foundations for the sciences other than those we have had up to now."
"To see how the impessions of visible obja: however opposed, can be communicated without beins diminished, read the las!"
"For even if the soul is imagined to be in the object and to penetrate it, as it is normally assumed to be in the brain and to penetrate it, the soul could not perceive it, since it cannot even discover the particles composing its brain, where it is said to make its principal residence."
"As soon as one says: 'I scorn the judgements of my reason simply from considerations of my own good pleasure, it pleases me to behave thus', it is as if one were to say:"
"I shall therefore first speak of the errors caused by our inclination for grandeur and for everything that frees our being from dependence on others."
"I clearly see that it is necessary for me to divide the subject of my meditation into parts in order to examine it more exactly and with less mental effort since I could not at first, from a simple view and with all the attention of which I am capable, discover what I was seeking."
"There are still other reasons for the soul's attention to novelties, but I have accounted for them while discussing the natural inclinations; here the soul is being considered only in relation to the body, and in this context, extraordinary agitation of the animal spirits is the cause of its attention to novelties, for the ordinary agitation of the animal spirits arouses our attention but very little."
"It seems that this globe was once on fire, and that the rocks forming the base of this crust of the earth are scoria remaining from a great fusion."
"This is why we see the sun and the moon as though they were wrapped in the clouds although they are vastly distant from them."
"I conclude that I am because I experience myself, and because nothing cannot be experienced."
"holam ut quid magister c:ogitet disc:"
"The leisure of the cloisters giving full scope for speculation, which was assisted by Aristotle's philosophy translated from the Arabic, there was formed at last a compound of theology and philosophy wherein most of the questions arose from the trouble that was taken to reconcile faith with reason."
"But as soon as I had acquired some general notions respecting physics, and beginning to make trial of them in various particular difficulties, had observed how far they can carry us, and how much they differ from the principles that have been employed up to the present time, I believed that I could not keep them concealed without sinning grievously against the law by which we are bound to promote, as far as in us lies, the general good of mankind."
"One is so well accustomed to these various ways of speaking that often one is put to it to say precisely which sense is the more ordinary and the more natural, and even that more intended by the author quis sensus magis naturalis, obvius, intentus."
"The book of the eternal Gospel, published lately in German and supported by a great and learned work entitled Greek: 'Apokat stasis nt has caused much stir over this great paradox."
"Of such absurdity no example will ever be found; and even supposing one takes a certain course out of caprice, to demonstrate one's freedom, the pleasure or advantage one thinks to find in this conceit is one of the reasons tending towards it."
"But this is not the place to disctoss the force that moves bodies it is not visible and I am speaking here only of the errors of the eyes."
"Bayle: for he was here somewhat biassed in favour of such indifference, which, notwithstanding, he contested so strongly on other occasions."
"Will cannot be called a free cause, but only a necessary cause."
"Timidity is the desire to avoid a greater evil, which we dread, by undergoing a lesser evil."
"The first such characteristic is that these persons are incapable of malting sound judgments about even slightly difficult and intricate things, because their mind's capacity is occupied with ideas tied by nature to these very deep traces in the brain, and therefore they are not free to think of many things at once."
"Haec est religio Christiana, fratres mei, quae praedicatur per universum mundum horrentibus inimicis."
"Si illllellexiscis, fratres, dictum esc ol cordi wescro."
"The apostle, they say (Rom., is right to disapprove of the doing of evil that good may come, but one cannot disapprove that God, through his exceeding power, derive from the permitting of sins greater goods than such as occurred before the sins."
"Such a doctrine not only completely tranquilizes our spirit, but also shows us where our highest happiness or blessedness is, namely, solely in the knowledge of God, whereby we are led to act only as love and piety shall bid us."
"I have taken this course, in order, if possible, to gain the attention of those who believe, that the principle that every man is bound to seek what is useful for himself is the foundation of impiety, rather than of piety and virtue."
"Hence it is absolutely necessary to preserve this order inviolably in one's studies:"
"but only to discover the relation they have to the pn:servation of the body; that our eyes generally deceive us in everythiDg they n:"
"The knowledge of all the views and judgments of other men, be they philosophers or geometers, is not so much a science as a history; for the true science that alone can render the human mind as perfect as it now can be consists in a capacity for judging on a firm foundation all things within its scope."
"Johann Sperling, a professor at Wittenberg, made a defence of his master, and finally came into conflict with Johann Zeisold, a professor at Jena, who upheld the belief that the human soul is created."
"Fate is the inevitable and eternal connexion of all events."
"When it overthrows some thesis, it builds up the opposing thesis."
"The change in the spirits caused by the nerves tlrat go ro the heart and lungs."
"It should be noted that the retina is of a white color, and that the optic nerve is extremely thil in relation to the motor nerves of the l'ye, and as a result nmtains a great number of threads."
"But the mind's conceptions indicate rather the emotions of our body than the nature of external bodies."
"Lastly, how can anyone be sure, that he has ideas which agree with their objects?"
"But as in this system all is connected and harmonious, all following from reasons and nothing being left incomplete or exposed to the rash discretion of perfect indifference, it seems that it was not pleasing to."
"Therefore no one, andc."
"He believed that God saw in the state of the soul, and of its surroundings, the reason for his determinations."
"If there were not other more profound reasons capable of inducing God to permit guilt, the source of misery, there would be neither guilt nor misery in the world, for the reasons alleged here do not suffice."
"This great man, conceiving very distinctly that matter cannot move itself and that the natural motor force of all bodies is none other than the general will of the Author of nature, and that hence the communication of the motion of bodies at their collision can come only from this same will, let himself believe that we could provide the rules of the various communication of motions only through the proportion found between the different sizes of the bodies struck, since it is not possible to penetrate the designs and will of God."
"But in this case, would it be proper for God to grant it to all, that is, always to act miraculously in respect of all rational creatures?"
"Here then are the accomplished sorcerers the shepherd has produced, and they themselves will one day make many others if, having strong and vivid imaginations."
"Given all this, men's ignorance and blindness should not be surprising since their mind, subjected to the inconstancy and weakness of their heart, which make it incapable of seriously considering anything."
"If the latter, then one infinite will be twice as large as another infinite, which is also absurd."
"It is not the sun that illumines us and gives us movement and life."
"he has promised us that the time shall come when his glory being revealed all men shall see clearly that he has been and that he is just.'."
"Page Nescire velle, quae Magister optimus Docere non vult, erudita inscitia est."
"I shall take care not only to demonstrate what I have just advanced, but also that we have hitherto proceeded rightly, and other things needful to be known."
"It must be understood, then, that the particles of wax, being aflame and consequently very agitated, press in every direction the subtle air or ether immediately surrounding them, and this air other air, and so on till it reaches us; and this occurs instantaneously because everything is a plenum"
"Consequently, an intelligent being could not conceivably have willed to produce the mind in this state."
"For if my intention were to show the connection between certain particular laws and the general law, or between certain ways of behaving and order, I would necessarily become involved in difficulties that I could not perhaps resolve, and that would lead me far from my topic."
"Nevertheless, without knowledge of the line, we can never, as we all realize, have knowledge of any figure."
"If the latter be passed over, there is necessarily a perversion of the succession of ideas which should reflect the succession of nature, and we go far astray from our object."
"He praises or condemns them all as a whole, and if he meets another of them, the Frenchman is immediately struck by his being like the one he has already seen, and he gives in to some secret liking or dislike for the man."
"The second half is united with the first, but it is not one with it."
"those it knows only by means of the former."
"I think, further, that no mind can be conceived of that does not think, though it is quite easy to conceive of one that does not sense or imagine, and that does not even will, just as unextended matter cannot be conceived of, though it is possible to conceive of matter that is neither earth nor metal, neither square nor round, and that even has no motion."
"In the final analysis, however, I do not see that any matter, even if it be the matter of the heavens, would contain more perfection in itselfthan any other."
"As to the first mode, it is evident that from hearsay our knowledge must always be uncertain, and, moreover, can give us no insight into the essence of a thing, as is manifest in our illustration; now one can only arrive at knowledge of a thing through knowledge of its essence, as will hereafter appear."
"For the mind will never conceive that one body, a purely passive substance, can in any way whatsoever transmit to another body the power transporting it."
"The individual parts composing the human body, and consequently the human body itself, are affected in a variety of ways by external bodies."
"Why must I renounce the hope of a crown?"
"I do not even know precisely what an idea is."
"There is therefore no necessity which binds me to go by the straight line; but as soon as I choose the best, I am determined to go that way, although this is only a moral necessity in the wise."
"We see the moon and the sun, for example, and other very distant spherical bodies as if they were flat and circular."
"The body is only extension in height, breadth, and depth, and all its properties consist only in (a) motion and rest, and (b) an infinity of different figures."
"Jupiter in parvo cum cerneret aethera vitro, Risit et ad Superos talia dicta dedit: Huccine mortalis progressa potentia, Divi?"
"the pleasure he finds in evil is the bait that hooks him."
"And in another Epistle:c Non ad oculum servientes quasi hominibus placentes, sed in simplicitate cordis Deum timentes."
"Perhaps you will recognize through this essay on method the necessity for reasoning only upon clear and evident ideas with which you are inwardly convinced that all nations will agree, and the necessity of never going on to complex things before having sufficiently examined the simple ones on which they depend."
"will necessarily pass through all the points of intersection of the parallels."
"There is nothing more admirable than these natural relations found among the inclinations of the minds of men, among the movements of their bodies, and between these inclinations and movements."
"Calvin himself and some others of the greatest defenders of the absolute decree rightly maintained that God had great and just reasons for his election and the dispensation of his grace, although these reasons be unknown to us in detail: and we must judge charitably that the most rigid predestinators have too much reason and too much piety to depart from this opinion."
"For in this way we shall provide principles that will not be easy to overthrow not because of their clarity and solidity but because they are obscure, like phantoms we cannot hurt because they have no bodies."
"It seems, when one considers the indifference of matter to motion and to rest, that the largest body at rest could be carried along without any resistance by the smallest body in motion, in which case there would be action without reaction and an effect greater than its cause."
"This is therefore not a defect where God and the saints are concerned: on the contrary, it would be a great defect, or rather a manifest absurdity, were it otherwise, even in men here on earth, and if they were capable of acting without any inclining reason."
"It may even be said that this will is efficacious of itself (per se) that is, in such sort that the effect would ensue if there were not some stronger reason to prevent it: for this will does not pass into final exercise ad summum conatum, else it would never fail to produce its full effect, God being the master of all things."
"The first, and the one the others presuppose, is nature, or the constant and immutable will of the Creator."
"There are even passages where he relents on the question of necessity."
"; that is, there is no real distinction between this idea and the emotion or idea of the modification of the body, save in conception only."
"But this does not prove that pleasure."
"You know that the argument proceeds like this: that which conserves itself acts; now that which acts exists, and nothing can act before it has attained complete existence; therefore, if a creature conserved itself, it would act before being."
"loves gentleness and peace, and as strong as she is, she sometimes gives in to the pride and arrogance of a lie adorned and anned with her own appeamnces."
"The inclination men have for grandeur is greater than that which they have for truth."
"Hence it follows that the mind is fitted to perceive adequately more things, in proportion as its body has more in common with other bodies."
"Thus, it should not be surprising if they fall into an infinite number of errors and often make less than certain judgments."
"Now the soul being once under thedomination of sin, and ready to commit sin in actual fact as soon as the man is fit to exercise reason, a new question arises, to wit: whether this tendency in a man who has not been regenerated by baptism suffices to damn him, even though he should never come to commit sin, as may happen, and happens often, whether he die before reaching years of discretion or he become dull of sense before he has made use of his reason."
"d which is precisely what astronomers have discovered by their observations."
"I know that the general opinion of the Schoolmen, according to the Master of the Sentences, is that in the other life there is neither merit nor demerit; but I do not think that, taken literally, it can pass for an article of faith."
"God is a mind or spirit, He thinks, He wills; but let us not humanize Him"
"In the actual knowledge of the emotions (V. note)."
"A malicious being would shower good things at such a price upon the people for whom he had the most hatred.'"
"And when ignorance and weakness accompany dread, they extend dread to an infinity of subjects and so increase its emotions"
"If he is weak and unable to resist the evil about to overwhelm him, his appearance will be humble and submissive."
"All things, he says, subsist for a finite or an infinite time."
"Rather, let Christians learn from their Master that the impious are capable of hurting them, and that good men are sometimes subjected to these impious ones by the order of Providence."
"Since the passion agitating the soul is often greater than the sensation affecting it, the soul seems to hold more closely to the object of its passion than to its own body; for it is principally through the passions that the soul is directed outside, and feels that it is effectively linked to everything around it."
"Thus, the ether must seize the top of the stone and make it descend, for two reasons: one, because the small vortexes apparently can have more room above than below, since the speed of the ether is greater below than above, its various distances from the center standing to each other reciprocally as the squan: of its speed at these distances, as we shall soon see."
"There remains only one important matter of discussion, which has its peculiar difficulties."
"A mode, therefore, which necessarily exists as infinite, must follow from the absolute nature of some attribute of God, either immediately (Prop. xxi.)"
"especially I must show that my dogmas are fortified (to make use of his own allegory) with a rampart, even of reasons, which is able to resist the fire of his strongest batteries."
"Therefore, after briefly showing that the contrary is the case, I go on to prove it by the same method, as that"
"For it is clear that the soul's modes are changeable but ideas are immutable; that its modes are particular, but ideas are universal and general to all intelligences; that its modes are contingent, but ideas are eternal The Search after and necessary; that its modes are obscure and shadowy, but ideas are very clear and luminous (i.e., its modes are only obscurely, though vividly, felt, but ideas are clearly known as the foundation of all the sciences); that these ideas are indeed efficacious because they act in the mind, they enlighten it and make it happy or unhappy, which is evident by the pain"
"sometimes happens that unknown people, who have no reputation, and for whom we were not biased by any esteem, have such strength of imagination and as a result such vivid and affective expressions that they persuade us without our knowing either why or even precisely of what we are persuaded."
"But for lively sensations such as pleasure and pain, we easily judge that they are in us because we perceive that they affect us, and we need not know them through their ideas in order to know that they belong to us."
"as the order and connection of ideas."
"In this example, I present the steps to be taken by a mind wishing to free itself from its prejudices in order to consider a fairly important question."
"Nor is it enough to say that God has made for himself a law to co operate with the wills or resolutions of man, whether we express ourselves in terms of the common opinion or in terms of the system of occasional causes."
"To understand this, we have only to consider that the first element, which is in the center of the vortex, can and does escape constantly through the intervals between the balls toward the circumference of the same vortex; and while this center or this star is being emptied through its equator, other of the first element must enter at its poles; for this star cannot be emptied from one side without being filled from the other, since there is no void in the world, as I assume here and which is easy to prove through natural effects,.e., through the transmission of light."
"It is true that, if the case were possible, one must say that the ass would starve himself to death: but fundamentally the question deals in the impossible, unless it be that God bring the thing about expressly."
"But a particular volition and a particular idea are one and the same (by the foregoing Prop.); therefore, will and understanding are one and the same."
"Acquaintance with true principles gives us this advantage, quite other than that the Stoics and the Epicureans derived from their philosophy."
": Hate is nothing else but pain accompanied by the idea of an external cause."
"But enough of these sensations."
"God gives perfection to creatures in so far as it is possible in the universe."
"We an: further inclined to this judgment in that pain or a burning sensation directs the soul's anention to the pans of our body and this distracts our thought from anything else."
"This is clear, without it being necessary that God as sovereign legislator has established these truths, a as Descartes has asserted in his reply to the sixth objections against his metaphysical meditations."
"No, His voice is as strong as it is distinct, and His light is as intense and as brilliant as it is pure."
"Aristotle pretended, for example, not to be ignorant of the cause of whiteness in the hair of old people; he gave several explanations of it at various places in his worlts."
"Bayle himself confused the certain with the necessary, when he maintained that the choice of the best rendered things necessary."
"Bayle raises like objections in his case Reply to the Questions of a Provincial vol."
"And if I am willing, in order not to burden myself with too many things, to suppose according to common opinion that this contraction occurs by means of animal spirit that fill the insides of these muscles and that thus approach their extremitic."
"The senses and the passions were given to us only for the good of the body."
"A man is as much affected pleasurably or painfully by the image of a thing past or future as by the image of a thing present."
"Th arch aft reason, of impurity against purity, of the mind of the world against the mind of God in a word, to follow this fashion is to violate the cause of reason and the Gospel."
"This voluntary impulse of the soul, which is connected with motion in the spirits and the blood, and which is followed by the sensation accompanying the new disposition produced by the spirits in the brain."
"Some go even further: not content with using the pretext of necessity to prove that virtue and vice"
"This solves the problem; and when the problem can have several solutions, they too are shown."
"in multis libris novae pruphetiae meminil."
"This assistance will thus be based on the very nature of the mind, and there is some reason to hope that it will not be useless or chimerical, like many other such aids that are more of a hindrance than a help."
"and Elucidation below."
"He even maintains that the laws of motion are entirely arbitrary. '"
"To submit to the false appearances of truth is to enslave oneself against the will of God; but to submit in good faith to these secret reproaches of our reason that accompany the refusal to yield to evidence is to obey the voice of eternal truth that speaks to us inwardly."
"The Christian religion, he says, desires that we beliel'e this, and natural reason absolutely persuades us of this truth, because, considering the omnipotent nature of God, we should judge that el'erything He made has all the perfection"
"For by ideas I do not mean images such as are formed at the back of the eye, or in the midst of the brain, but the conceptions of thought."
"They give the mind unexpected shocks, dazing it and disturbing it; they quickly penetrate to the soul's innermost recesses, and, overthrowing reason"
"It will not be difficult to understand how fathers and mothers cause very strong impressions on their children's imaginations if we consider that these natural dispositions of our brain inclining us to imitate those with whom we live and to share their feelings and passions are stronger in children with regard to their parents than in all other people."
", an appearance that by its impression mechanically disposes everyone seeing it to those passions and actions useful to the good of society."
"Indeed, their existence has no connection with their essence, or (as we have said already) is not an eternal truth."
"nalura c:ujusque c:onsistit,"
"It is not that he is diffuse but that he has the secret of being concise and saying nothing but words."
"provided it be some extraordinaty thought and that he have some bold expression through which he might hope to parade the strength, or better the derangement, of his imagination."
"creatura habet propriam"
"The Search after difficult thing to recognize that there is a difference between the soul and the body, between that which thinks and that which is extended?"
"But now innumerable truths, concerning both, on the one hand, God himself and other intellectual things and, on the other, the whole of this bodily nature which is the object of pure mathematics, can be plainly known to me with certainty."
"If a man cannot tum a tower upside down, at least he knows what must be done to do so; but there is no man who knows what must be done to move one of his fingers by means of animal spirits."
"by means of letters of the alphabet."
"But the particular reasons for each fermentation cannot be clearly explained."
"This prejudice is further confirmed by the fact that some impulses take place in us that depend on our will, and of which we consequently take ourselves to be the true cause."
", the former is related to the latter as being is to not being."
"After what has been said, I do not think anyone can doubt that those who claim the mind can form its own ideas of objects are mistaken, since they attribute to the mind the power of creating, and even of creating wisely and with order, although it has no knowledge of what it does which is inconceivable."
"Thus every man will follow this or that train of thought, according as he has been in the habit of conjoining and associating the mental images of things in this or that manner."
"Thus, it is necessary for the conservation of all animals that there be certain connections of traces that can easily be fonned and destroyed, and that there be others that can be broken only with difficulty, and finally, still others that can never be broken."
"From the third kind of knowledge necessarily arises the intellectual love of God."
"I mean', he says, 'a freedom such as may always follow the judgements of the mind, and such as cannot resist objects clearly recognized as good."
"As the infinitely perfect Being finds in himself a glory and a bliss that can never either diminish or increase, his goodness alone has determined him to create this universe: neither the ambition to be praised, nor any interested motive of preserving or augmenting his bliss and his glory, has had any part therein.'"
"Origen having applied the passage from Psalm lxxvii, verse God will not forget to be gracious, neither will he shut up his loving kindness in displeasure, St. Augustine replies (Enchirid."
"The second opinion is that of Traduction as if the soul of children were engendered per traducem from the soul or souls of those from whom the body is engendered."
"For instance, air if it is compressed too firmly in a glass vessel will break it in order to escape."
"His natural eloquence, joined to the disposition of his family to listen attentively to a subject so novel and terrible, doubtless produces strange impressions in weak imaginations, and it is naturally impossible that his wife and children should not be quite frightened, impressed, and convinced by what he has told them."
"But men not only desire actually to possess knowledge and virtue, honors and riches"
"Descartes acknowledges that this book is by a man of talent, he observes therein some very dangerous principles and maxims, in the assumption there made that all men are wicked, or the provision of them with motives for being so."
"Needs must it be hard, since it is so seldom found."
"Bayle examined it in his Historical and Critical Dictionary article 'Rorarius'."
"The books of human misery, such as that of Pope Innocent to me seem not of the most serviceable: evils are doubled by being given an attention that ought to be averted from them, to be turned towards"
"Moreover, I believe I should warn that what damages Descartes's physics most is this false premise that rest has force; for from this he inferred false rules of motion; from this he concluded that the balls of his second element were hard in and of themselves;"
"Thus, this sensation was able to lead him to consider his own perfections and to be pleased with himself if he forgot or in some way lost sight of Him whose operations cannot be perceived."
"Thus, although it regulates the imagination and makes the mind precise, it does not add much to its scope, and does not make it capable of discovering very complex truths."
"Here is his fourth argument."
"It is simply a certain association of ideas involving the nature of things outside the human body, which association arises in the mind according to the order and association of the modifications (affectiones) of the human body."
"The chief cause that prevents us from taking our dreams for reality is that we cannot connect our dreams with the things we have done while awake, for this is how we recognize that they are only dreams."
"Moreover, the damned have no need of a succour that is needed in this life, for they know"
"For it is according to changes that take place in this part that the soul itself changes and finds itself excited by sensible objects."
"Fire consists of a massive motion of the parts of wood; we want to know what effects this motion is capable of producing, whether it can harden mud, melt iron, and so on."
"is related to the said lxv."
"le Clerc also has ingeniously pleaded the cause of the Origenists, but without declaring himself for them."
"For the fact is that when painters desire to represent sirens and little satyrs with utterly unfamiliar shapes, they cannot devise altogether new natures for them, but simply combine parts from different animals; or if perhaps they do think up something so new that nothing at all like it has ever been seen, which is thus altogether fictitious and false, it is certain that at least the colours which they combine to form images must be real."
"That is how Aristotle reasons."
"This is the cause of men's pleasure in recalling past evils, and delight in narrating dangers from which they have escaped."
"And as for the heavens, they are composed of the most fluid and subtle maner, especially the sun, which, far from being incorruptible and without heat, as the JournoJ drs avans of August."
"Because they are more knowledgeable about the origin of words, we let ourselves be persuaded that they are learned in the nature of things."
"For a power that cannot be exercised or that cannot realize any act is a power that can do nothing, and that consequently is nothing."
"In this same general rule regarding the subject of our studies, there is still this circumstance to note well, namely, that we must always begin with the simplest and easiest things, and dwell on that point, if necessary even for quite a while, before undertaking the search for more complex and difficult ones."
", in our idea of an infinitely perfect being: therefore, the whole is greater than its parts; therefore, a mountain of marble can exist; therefore, a mountain without a valley cannot exist; therefore, God or the infmitely perfect being necessarily exists."
"But since I had no knowledge of these other things except from these ideas themselves, I could only suppose that the things were like the ideas."
"And, just as in pulling down an old house, we usually reserve the ruins to contribute towards the erection, so, in destroying such of my opinions as I judged to be Ill founded, I made a variety of observations and acquired an amount of experience of which I availed myself in the establishment of more certain."
"must have led to such an arrangement."
"For instance, the man Peter is something real; the true idea of Peter is the reality of Peter represented subjectively, and is in itself something real, and quite distinct from the actual Peter."
"And He wills these laws because, being very simple, they are always capable of producing that variety of forms which we cannot admire too much."
"This is because they would often seem to be ill mannered in the heated defense of their opinions, whereas we cannot be criticized for defending them."
"neque necesse fuisse"
"But because we cannot reasonably doubt that there are spirits susceptible to some fennentation through the mixture of some subtle material, and because acrid and pungent humors cannot thread their way into the nerves, we can assume this construction."
"Besides it is very usual for one part of a nation to give the name to the whole: so all the Germani were called Alemanni by the French, and yet this, according to the old nomenclature, only applied to the Suabians and the Swiss."
"A true idea must agree with its object (Ax."
"What I have just said about white and black must be applied to the other colors."
"The reasoning would be identical in the case of the will, as anyone can easily see."
"And it is this concurrence and this reaction that is the cause of the true weight of gross bodies."
"We can say then that this ordinary disposition of the mind and heart of men with regard to everything that bears the mark of novelty is one of the most general causes of their errors, for it hardly ever leads them to the truth."
"that they fall by their gravity, that they rise by their lnity."
"Then set this eye in a window with the pupil outside and the back of the eye inside the room, which should be tightly sealed in order to be quite dark."
"The way in which this end can be obtained, so that men who are necessarily a prey to their emotions."
"Since the air is compressed only by the weight of the atmosphere, some time is required for a part of it to move an adjacent part."
"he chapler of which !"
"Nevertheless that evil state of the slave, which is also our own, does not prevent us, any more than him, from making a free choice of that which pleases us most, in the state to which we are reduced, in proportion to our present strength and knowledge."
"Thus, our souls depend on God in all ways."
"This being the case, it is easy to judge that magnet (C) prevents there being as much of this air we speak of around (a) as around (b)."
"Thus, I can and consequently should examine the question in parts; for it appears to require a long discussion."
"You have caught me, this is not an honest contract."
"Thus, there is nothing in the entire body that does not confonn to the natural traces; they are transmitted full strength to infants."
"After their initial assualt, if there is some mind strong and firm enough not to have been upset who shows them that they are wrong, they nonetheless remain stubbornly attached to their errors."
"Bayle has refuted that himself in a passage opposing the Spinozists, which I have already quoted here, and he has frequently acknowledged that there is nothing impossible except that which implies contradiction"
"I am of the opinion, then, that the advice of wise physicians should be followed physicians who do not progress too quickly, who do not expect too much from their remedies, and who are not too quick to make prescriptions, because for every remedy that does some good, there are always several others that have just the opposite effect."
"Descanes was a man among men, and like men, subject to error and illusion; there is not a one of his works, including even his Geometry, that does not bear the mark of the human mind's weakness."
"Since we are obliged to use terms sanctioned by usage, it should not be surprising if obscurity and sometimes a kind of contradiction are to be encountered in what we say."
"you will know with evidence a very great number of truths fruitful for all the exact and particular sciences."
"Thus, it is not in relation to the motion of the fibers of our bodies that we must define the cause of heat or the motion that stimulates it."
"But the case of choosing between sin and true bliss is simply chimerical, and it is better to obtain bliss (even after repentance) than to be deprived of it for ever."
"Arnauld, brings up against me."
"But when we imagine a right angle, we cannot be mistaken, our idea of it is quite distinct, and the image we form of it in the brain generally is sufficiently accurate."
"For on the contrary, since it is supremely clear and distinct, and contains more objective reality than any other, there is no idea that is truer in itself and in which less suspicion of falsity can be found."
", which does not follow from his virtue."
"They would try in vain to explain the ease with which a wheel turns on its axle by the use we make of it."
"All this shows that few enors are more dangerous, or more easily communicable, than those with which Seneca's books are filled."
"Nothing is as beautiful as the truth, and we must not pretend to be able to make it more beautiful by painting it with sensible colors that are impermanent and have but passing charm."
"In the fourth and fifth books, the errors caused by our natural inclinations and passions (of which we have already just said something in this chapter) will be discussed at greater length."
"There are two kinds of strong imaginations."
"If we had never sensed pain, heat, light, and such, we would be unable to know whether the soul was capable of sensing these things, because we do not know it through its idea."
"For everyone knows distinctly that all bodies are composed, or can be composed, of small parts."
"The idea of the idea of each modification of the human body does not involve an adequate knowledge of the human mind."
"; he is infinitely conscious of his own perfection, and it may even be said that the imperfection in creatures taken individually changes for him into perfection in relation to the whole, and that it is an added glory for the Creator."
"There I pointed out that by nature every simple substance has perception, and that its individuality consists in the perpetual law which brings about the sequence of perceptions that are assigned to it, springing naturally from one another, to represent the body that is allotted to it, and through its instrumentality the entire universe, in accordance with the point of view proper to this simple substance and without its needing to receive any physical influence from the body."
"I wish only to speak of ways of living that sustain more errors, and more important errors."
"Intellectual joy is stable, without remorse and as immutable as the truth causing it, whereas sensible joy is almost always accompanied by sadness of mind or remorse of conscience, is unsettled, and is as inconstant as the passion or the agitation of the blood producing it."
"There is still another defect found frequently enough among learned men, viz, that they apply themselves to too many sciences at the same time, and if they study six hours daily, they sometimes study six different things."
"in virtue of his constituting our mind, but in virtue of his constituting the mind of something else; that is."
"Then we have no further need to think of reasons or to pause over the difficulties of argument which the mind may anticipate."
"a Some of them claim that causality must not be produced, for it is what produces."
"What is the cause of the general corruption of the air that causes so many diseases?"
"Reply I reply that men would still have the same sensible proofs that have convinced them of the distinction they make between living things and those not living."
"Here is the second way of explaining the disorders due to sin, which is certainly more reasonable than the one we have just discussed."
"When a man speaks as do others, that does not always signify that he is of their opinion."
"The penalty serves also for amendment and example."
"The Search after absolutely necessary for understanding physics."
"Last Elucidation Containing the description of the parts of which the eye is composed and the principal explanations of their construction as an aid to understanding what is said in the first book concerning the errors of vision."
"It is again necessary to examine what he says about it."
"I may still have to live to no other occupation than that of endeavoring to acquire some knowledge of Nature, which shall be of such a kind as to enable us therefrom to deduce rules in medicine of greater certainty than those at present in use; and that my inclination is so much opposed to all other pursuits, especially to such as cannot be useful to some without being hurtful to others, that if, by any circumstances, I had been constrained to engage in such, I do not believe that I should have been able to succeed."
"Now, since its covering is tough and elastic, it constantly resists the muscle compressing it; and if ever this muscle were not equally tensed at the spot where it is attached to this covering, inequality would occur in the distance between the crystalline lens and the retina, and consequently in the clarity of the image and the perception of the object."
"therefore realized that those who had been conquered and laid low by the force and impulse of Tertullian, carried away and dazzled by the grandeur and the beauties of Seneca, won over and corrupted by the free and natural ways of Montaigne would not change their oijinion after reading a few pages of my book."
"Like the inclinations, they are general, but they are not as strong, because the cause that produces and sustains them is not equally active."
"will regard the external body as actually existing, until it is affected, andc."
"no one wilh his eyes open"
"Most of the spirits are driven into the muscles of the arms, legs, and face and all the exterior parts of the body in order to suit it to thedominating passion, and to give it the bearing and motion necessary to acquire the good or flee the evil presenting itself."
"It is possible that the same result may be brought about by other causes; but I think it suffices for me here to have indicated one possible explanation, just as well as if I had pointed out the true cause."
"I have just related the reasons for this."
"of our lack of application cmr ignorance."
"The things I have just discussed are such widespread and fertile sources of error, prejudice, and injustice, that it is impossible to take note of all their consequences."
"Vendidit hic auro patriam Dominumque potentem Imposuit, fixit leges pretio atque refixit."
"His imagination and senses would be naturally very alert to the taste he was experiencing."
"Therefore, there are secondary causes."
"And as for the cause of evil, it is true that the Devil is the author of sin."
"True, minds are not like bodies; they cannot feel pleasure without having an impulse, because God who makes and preserves them only for Himself constantly urges them toward the good."
"Hit is ttue, then, that enor is the origin of men's misery, it is fining that men make an effort to deliver themselves from it."
"Did he make them solely in order to show forth his glory by manifesting his attributes, and forming, to that end, the great plan of creation and providence?"
"I think everyone agrees that we do not perceive objects extemaliO us by themselves."
"Tlus measure is umty."
"For though an avaricious man should, for the sake of avoiding death, cast his riches into the sea, he will none the less remain avaricious; so, also, if a lustful man is downcast, because he cannot follow his bent, he does not, on the ground of abstention, cease to be lustful."
"Hence it follows, first, that God does not act according to freedom of the will."
"We can, I repeat, thus hypothesize so long as we see no impossibility."
"Descartes and a section of his followers, who maintain that God is the free cause of truths and of essences, he adds ("
"But how can we justify the passion of those who tum their head into a library of dictionaries."
"This cry, often uttered mechanically without thinking, unfailingly reaches the ears of those close enough to give the help we need."
"Before baptism, not only is the child's body corrupt but its soul and all its faculties are also infected by sin."
"and contumeliis Clericorum Romanae Ecclesiae,"
"When I go into this more closely, it first occurs to me that I should not be surprised if God does some things the reasons for which I do not understand."
"But even if we suppose man to be the absolute master of his mind and ideas, still by his nature he would necessarily be subject to error."
"There are people in the villages also who nail birds of prey to the doors of houses, with the idea that other birds of the same kind will then not so readily appear."
"Thus we see that men are wont to style natural phenomena perfect or imperfect rather from their own prejudices, than from true knowledge of what they pronounce upon."
"It has only been necessary to make this initial division in order to repon the causes of our errors with some order."
"Of those three sorts of truths."
"Aristotle claims it is hot, but I do not think that those who live toward the north share his opinion, since even several healthy people whose weather is no less hot than Greece's have held that it is cold."
"Quod amplius nos delectat, secundum id operemur necesse est'"
"Thus, when wonder does not lead us to conduct a complete examination of things, or when it prevents us from doing so, it is altogether useless in knowing the truth."
"I will only say generally, that in proportion as any given body is more fitted than others for doing many actions or receiving many impressions at once, so also is the mind, of which it is the object, more fitted than others for forming many simultaneous perceptions; and the more the actions of the body depend on itself alone, and the fewer other bodies concur with it in action, the more fitted is the mind of which it is the object for distinct comprehension."
"If it happens that a sick man has some one of these symptoms, it will be scurvy, and no one will even think of the other diseases having the same symptoms."
"It is true that I have said many things that seem to belong less to the subject I am treating than to that of the soul's particular impulses."
"That it perceives certain things, or forms some ideas absolutely, some ideas from others."
"This kind of knowledge proceeds from an adequate idea of the absolute essence of certain attributes of God to the adequate knowledge of the essence of things."
"For if justice was established arbitrarily and without any cause, if God came upon it by a kind of hazard, as when one draws lots, his goodness and his wisdom are not manifested in it, and there is nothing at all to attach him to it."
"ofthe sense organs is known, and that they are composed of tiny filaments originating in the middle of the brain, that they spread out into all our memben in which there is feeling and that they finally lead without interruption to the exterior portions of the body, that so long as one is awake and in good health one end cannot be moved without the other being moved at the same time, since they are always made somewhat taut by the animal spirits they contain just as one part of a taut string cannot be moved without the other being disturbed."
"Now it is in this facility the animal spirits have of flowing into the members of our bodies that habits consist."
"By modes I mean what is relative, or what cannot be conceived alone."
"All those who have some knowledge of anatomy, and who have noted the prodigious number of an animal's parts, the connections between these parts and the various uses to which they are destined, will undoubtedly judge that the collision of bodies might well destroy living bodies."
"menrem rationalem non vegetari."
"We must use them, therefore, in great moderation."
"Repentance is not a virtue, or does not arise from reason; but he who repents of an action is doubly wretched or infirm."
"The Search after modifications, because these inclinations and instances of motion are ordinarily related to something external, for inclinations are related to the good, and motion is related to some foreign body."
"But because the true God threatens them in the secret recesses of their conscience with an eternity of tonnents to punish their excessive ingratitude, and because, in spite of this, they do not want to abandon their idolatry, they take it into their heads to perfonn some externally good worlts."
"But the same is not true of those concerning light, colors, tastes, odors, and all the other sensible qualities, for truth is never encountered here, as we shall show in the rest of this first book."
"Yet in order to know through clear knowledge whether a given fruit at a given time is nourishing for the body, it manifestly would be necessary to know so many things and to reason so much that a mind of the greatest scope would be entirely occupied thereby."
"In a word, that the soul should change the quantity of force and that it should change the line of direction, both these things are equally inexplicable."
"Coroll.), and those which are inadequate in the mind are likewise (by the same Coroll.)"
"Thus it may be seen from all"
"Now in the appearance of Sacred Scripture and from the appearance of miracles we learn that God has created a heaven and an earth, that the Word was made flesh, and other such truths that assume the existence of a created world."
"As a result, man is subject to concupiscence, his mind depends on his body, he feels unintended pleasures and involuntary."
"Observe, that although many assert that they doubt whether God exists, they have nought but his name in their minds, or else some fiction which they call God: this fiction is not in harmony with God's real nature, as we will duly show."
"Thus it is by an arbitrary institution he has ordained that wounds in the body should cause pain in the soul which is united to this body."
"Not only does it conceive that it will never lack for ideas of figures, and that it will always discover new ones, even if it were to attend only to these kinds of ideas for all eternity; it even perceives infinity in extension, for the mind cannot doubt that its idea of space is inexhaustible."
"That in the temperate zones the parts of the earth's surface revolve with precisely the same speed as the ether at the surface, and everywhere else with a speed that cannot be perceptibly very different."
"He is truly the mind's light and the father of lights."
"If this disease is called scurvy, for example, then all diseases will be scurvy."
"He, who loves God, cannot endeavour that God should love him in return."
"The Riponsr uu rr tks ru) rS and fauues"
"We feel it diminish perceptibly, and sometimes increase suddenly."
"But much skill and care is required in the use of these aids if they are to be of any help."
"It is thus that, being made confident by demonstrations of the goodness and the justice of God, we disregard the appearances of harshness and injustice which we see in this small portion of his Kingdom that is exposed to our gaze."
"Does not this clearly indicate a cause of the reflection of rays occurring only on the surface of the air, a cause other than collision with its gross parts?"
"Finally, because a ball does not have the power to move itself, they should not judge that a ball in motion is the true and principal cause ofthe movement of the ball it finds in its path."
"We give up seeking the true good and frustrate the impulse God impresses in us."
"He considers that there are three objects of divine knowledge, the possibles, the actual events and the conditional events that would happen in consequence of a certain condition if it were translated into action."
"They think this is enough to avoid seduction by the senses as well as all error."
"Prop. explains to us the nature of Pity, which we may define as pain arising from another's hurt."
"It would be too long a task to enumerate here all the evil results of pride, inasmuch as the proud are a prey to all the emotions, though to none of them less than to love and pity."
"The Search after The kings and even the queens of England have the right of governing over all the states of their realms, whether ecclesiastical or civil, in all causes."
"Let him do better in another work if he can, and not corrupt the works he has sold."
"For instance, when we know the nature of the circle and the square, it is impossible for us to blend together these two figures, and to hypothesize a square circle, any more than a square soul, or things of that kind."
"With these truths of dioptrics assumed, let us examine how we see objects and"
"But if you would have it that creatures have the faculties they are ordinarily conceived to have, a or that natural bodies be said to have a nature that is the principle of their motion and rest (as Aristotle and his followers would have it), all my ideas would be overthrown."
"lhat lhe modes of our soul, although finite, are essentially representative of infinilely perfect being."
"The hatred of God, they say, is an action in which there is nothing good."
"We call a thing good or evil, when it is of service or the reverse in preserving our being."
"Fifth Objection Writing to Timothy Saint Paul says that God dwells in an inaccessible light that no one has ever seen, nor ever can see."
"Certainly God sees that there are spaces between the bodies He has created; but He does not see these bodies or spaces by themselves."
"But his own wisdom is the greatest judge that he can find, there is no appeal from its judgements: they are the decrees of destiny."
"would have to tum in about three hours to preserve equilibrium as do the superior layers of the vortex of which it is the center."
"For just as the beauty of a work cannot be seen without opening the eyes and contemplating it, so the mind cannot clearly see most things with their relations to one another unless it considers them attentively."
"rather, they resist it and even force it to consider objects in such a way a to agitate and disturb it on behalf of the passions."
"Whosoever will diligently observe and practise these precepts (which indeed are not difficult) will verily, in a short space of time, be able, for the most part, to direct his actions according to the commandments of reason."
"Hence they easily impress upon others the false view with which they themselves are prejudiced."
"Men are more certain of the existence of God than of bodies, and when they withdraw into themselves they find the will of God, according to which He produces and conserves all beings, more clearly than the will of their best friends or of those they have spent their whole life studying."
"This Princess exhorted and urged him to carry out his long cherished intention, and some friends added their persuasions."
"This is perhaps the place to call attention to the fact, that it is nothing wonderful that all those actions, which are commonly called wrong, are followed by pain, and all those, which are called right, are followed by pleasure."
"Thus, not by consulting the sensations excited in us by the passions, but by consulting reason must we describe the judgments accompanying the passions, lest we make ourselves rather than the general nature of the passions known."
"It is also because of this that two planes of glass or marble, having been rubbed against each other, are joined so that we feel resistance when we try to separate them, because these two parts of marble are pressed and compressed by the outside air that surrounds them, and are not so strongly pushed by that on the inside."
"and per quem inrelligibililer luc:ent. quae inrellisibilirer lucent omnia."
"It is to listen to our faith rather than our reason, and to strive after God, not so much by our natural forces (which since Original Sin are totally languid), as by the aid of faith, through which alone God wills to guide us into this immense light of truth that will dispel all our shadows; for in the end it is much better, like good people, to spend some years in ignorance of certain things and then in one moment to fmd ourselves enlightened forever, than to acquire by natural means, with much application and difficulty, a very imperfect science that leaves us in darkness for all eternity."
"E.D. Desire arising from the true knowledge of good and evil, in so far as such knowledge is concerned with what is contingent, can be controlled far more easily still, than desire for things that are present."
"Therefore an object, andc."
"The production, or action whereby God produces, is anterior by nature to the existence of the creature that is produced; the creature taken in itself, with its nature and its necessary properties, is anterior to its accidental affections and to its actions; and yet all these things are in being in the same moment."
"for since I know its distance, the size of its image, and the diameter of my eyes, I construct this proportion: as the diameter of my eyes stands to its image, so the distance of the horse stands to its size; and comparing its size with that of other horses I have seen, I judge that it is one of the large horses."
"I say transition: for pleasure is not perfection itself."
", the disposition or emotion of the body is identical, whether the image be of a thing past, future, or present."
"For clearly resemblance includes only one relation, and a single idea is needed to judge that a thousand things are similar, whereas to judge without fear of error that a thousand objects are all different from one another, a thousand different ideas absolutely must be present to the mind."
"How much difference there is, for example, between the music of France and that of Italy and of China and of other lands, and as a result, between the taste these different peoples have for the different kinds of music."
"Assuming, then, that the range of colors results only from the different frequency of pressure vibrations, as I believe I have sufficiently proved, we can clearly see the reason why all the simple rays red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo or dark blue, and violet do not change their color or the frequency of their vibrations, and that their refractions always stand in the same ratios to each other, as Newton has proved with several decisive experiments."
"We must make as much use of our freedom as possible; our judgments should have no greater extent than our perceptions."
": that is why the pyramid goes on descending to infinity."
"I had long before remarked that, in relation to practice, it is sometimes necessary to adopt, as if above doubt, opinions which we discern to be highly uncertain, as has been already said; but as I then desired to give my attention solely to the search after truth, I thought that a procedure exactly the opposite was called for, and that I ought to reject as absolutely false all opinions in regard to which I could suppose the least ground for doubt, in order to ascertain whether after that there remained aught in my belief that was wholly indubitable."
"This is why it easily convinces itself that the essences of things are indivisible and that they are like numbers, as we have just said because it then needs but one idea to represent all the bodies it terms of the same kind."
"If the thing in question be created, the definition must (as we have said) comprehend the proximate cause."
"Now, the rays drawn from point, somewhat farther from the axis than the ray Ad, which intersects it at point, would also pass through this same point of convergence that corresponds to point, and which is near point."
"In this way they establish and justify themselves."
"If men held, of themselves, the power to love the good, we could say they had some power; but men can only love because God wills them to and because His will is efficacious."
"For it need not be imagined with Aristotle that the heart is the first part to live and the last to die."
"can easily unite themselves to God and make themselves attentive to the truth that speaks to them; they can forgo the assistance drawn from the passions."
"It is very dangerous to speak decisively on matter."
"We cannot assert, indeed, that the wicked of our globe are punished so severely in order to intimidate the inhabitants of the other globes and to make them better."
"And resorting to a blind nature, plastic forms, the soul of the mother or of those who have these defects in order to explain them is of good intention, but it is to form chimeras."
"It is evident from what I have said, that we are in many ways driven about by external causes, and that like waves of the sea driven by contrary winds we toss to and fro unwitting of the issue and of our fate."
"es of nature; we can resist God through the fon:"
"Through the love of grandeur we affect power, excellence, independence, and self subsistence of our being."
"In proportion as a mental image or an emotion is referred to more objects, so are there more causes whereby it can be aroused and fostered, all of which (by hypothesis)"
"Non Ionge est ab unoquoque nostrum, in ipso enim vivimus, movemus."
"In the next place, from reflecting on the circumstance that I doubted, and that consequently my being was not wholly perfect (for I clearly saw that it was a greater perfection to know than to doubt), I was led to inquire"
"I believe I have establishedb elsewhere that the hardness of bodies depends on the compression of subtle matter."
"In short, he almost always contradicts himself, if not in his works, then at least in the mouths of those who teach him."
"And although, in a sense, whether I think of them or not is up to me, yet they are not inventions of my own mind, but they have true and immutable natures of their own."
"Since men think they will receive from the bodies surrounding them the pleasures they enjoy in using them if they join themselves to these bodies with all the strength of their soul, the source of their disorder is therefore their sensible conviction in the efficacy of secondary causes."
"The representation often suppresses something in the objects when it is imperfect; but it can add nothing: that would render it, not more than perfect, but false."
"Now this high esteem in which people of strong and lively imagination hold themselves and their qualities swells their courage and causes them to assume adominant and decisive bearing."
"unless the rule I am explaining be received, that I uphold them all, and even that I hold the view concerning the efficacy of secondary causes that I am now refuting; or perhaps it will be concluded that the Search after is a book full of gross and obvious contradictions, as some people might conclude who perhaps do not have enough equity and penetration to set themselves up as judges of the works of others."
"For these terms are not clear, as is ordinarily imagined."
"The knowledge of opinions is much more useful for conversation, and for causing admiration in the minds of ordinary people, than the knowledge of the true philosophy one learns in meditating."
"everything we observe with certitude in the skies concerning the motion of the planets is in rather close accord with what has just been said about their being formed in the simplest ways."
"Here are his own words: ep )"
"Now as they are aware, that they found these conveniences and did not make them, they think they have cause for believing, that some other being has made them for their use."
"However that may be, I have already shown fully that God, doing what his wisdom and his goodness combined ordain, is not answerable for the evil that he permits."
"This is the same as to say that, if God wished to bring it about that we should understand an infinite number of other entities, it would be necessary for him to give us a greater understanding, but not a more universal idea of entity than that which we have already, in order to grasp such infinite entities."
"Every distinct idea is, through its distinctness, in conformity with its object, and in God there are distinct ideas only."
"It was more reasonable', he says, 'to say' (with the Epicureans) 'that innumerable parts' (or atoms flying about at haphazard through an infinite space) 'by their force prevailed over the weakness of Jupiter and, in spite of him and against his nature and will, did many bad and irrational things, than to agree that there is neither confusion nor wickedness"
"At the command of Pallas there came within view Dodona with the temple of Jupiter, and Sextus issuing thence; he could be heard saying that he would obey the God."
"It seems to me that this diversity of views gives us the right to view men as often talking about things they do not know, and that since the power of creatures is a fiction of the mind of which we naturally have no idea, it is fancy that leads everyone to imagine it."
"Everything the mind represents to itself as its good is finite, and everything finite can momentarily distract our love, but cannot hold it permanently."
"Sec chapter of St. Augustine ''Amos."
"Omnc:s uncle volunt consulunt, sed non semper quod volunt audiunt."
"Similarly, in order for God to create a The Search after world, it is not sufficient that He stop willing it not to exist, but He must positively desire the mode in which it must exist."
"Since, moreover, all is wisely connected together in the world, it is clear that God, foreseeing that which would happen freely, ordered all other things on that basis beforehand, or (what is the same)"
"The other is that it is not consistent with supreme wisdom and goodness to fail to do what is best and most perfect."
"A man in fever, for example, finds that wine is bitter, and wine is also then harmful to him."
"But it is obvious that, according to this reply, the piece of wood, once agitated, should not have diminished its motion, but that on the contrary it should have continuously augmented it."
"Chapter Thirteen I. Tlr third natural inclination, which is our friendship for other men."
"this world be unbounded."
"f) Finally it should be noted that the heavier or more dense transparent bodies are, the greater the refraction of rays entering them is."
"How many savants have labored to clarify the obscure passages of the philosophers and even of cenain poets of antiquity, and how many wits are there who still delight in the critique of an author's word or opinion?"
"It must first be noted that the hope of an eternity of pleasures does not act as strongly upon minds as does the fear of an eternity of torments."
"But it is more advantageous to those who read him to believe that he is mistaken than to be persuaded that everything he ays true."
"it is taught in the majority of the Christian Schools, but it is fraught with the greatest difficulty in respect of original sin."
"These laws and this judge do not constrain: they are stronger, for they persuade."
"But since the general plan of the universe, chosen by God for superior reasons, causes men to be in different circumstances, those who meet with such as are more favourable to their nature will become more readily the least wicked, the most virtuous, the most happy; yet it will be always by aid of the influence of that inward grace which God unites with the circumstances."
"Let us hold this view, then, that God is the intelligible world or the place of minds, as the material world is the place of bodies; that from His power minds receive their modifications; that in His wisdom they find all their ideas; that through His love they receive their orderly impulses, and because His power and love are but Himself, let us believe with Saint Paul, that He is not far from any of us, and that in Him we live and move and have our being."
"There is often a great deal of virtue and charity to be found in persons afflicted with scruples; but there is very much less in those attached to certain superstitions, whose principal occupation is certain Jewish and Pharisaic practices."
"I can certainly distinctly imagine the quantity that philosophers commonly call 'continuous': that is, the extension of this quantity (or rather, of the thing to which the quantity is attributed) in length, breadth, and depth."
"By an adequate cause, I mean a cause through which its effect can be clearly and distinctly perceived."
"We revealed the chief and most general errors into which they lead us, and tried to limit their power in such a way that we should expect very much and fear nothing from them, if we always keep them within lheir prescribed borders."
"The emotions, which are contrary to our nature, that is."
"For God in His infinite wis iom placed in them all the springs or principles of action needed for their preservation."
"In consequence the belief arose that their masters rejected philosophy: but they justified themselves very well; nor could they be convicted either of this error or of the heresies that were being imputed to them."
"Let us therefore return to foreknowledge, and distinguish between the necessary and the certain."
"Thus the light of this coin at feet is but the part of the fint light,.e., of the light intercepted by the coin one foot from the luminous point."
"I shall put foremost, then I will do the opposite of that which he shall have foretold."
"Thus, no property other than its divene thoughts should be attributed to the soul."
"Of all the passions, these are the cruelest and the most suspect, the most opposed to charity and civil society, and at the same time the most ridiculous and most extravagant, for they form such absurd and incongruous judgments that they provoke the indignant laughter of everyone."
"Bayle believes that everything accomplished through general laws is accomplished without miracles."
"He had neither the hardness of a diamond unbreakable by iron nor the solidity of rocks immovable by floods, as Seneca pretends."
"I do not claim to teach everyone:"
"It appears strange therefore that."
"The errors of vision with regard to absolute extension itendue en soi)."
"But even though he should have promised nothing, it is enough that there is a fitness of things which could have prompted him to make this promise, since the wise man likewise promises only that which is fitting."
"For if it were a necessary emanation, like that of the properties of the circle, which issue from its essence, it must then be said that God in the beginning produced the creature by necessity; or else it must be shown how, in creating it once, he imposed upon himself the necessity of conserving it."
"This is what is termed a hypothetical necessity."
"For although my nature is such that, as long as I perceive something very clearly and distinctly, I cannot not believe that it is true, nonetheless, because my nature is also such that I cannot continuously fix the gaze of the mind on the same thing in order to perceive it clearly, and what often happens is that I remember judging something to be true, then, when I am no longer concentrating on the reasons for which I made that judgement, other reasons can be adduced that would easily (were I ignorant of God) shake me out of my opinion."
"not reason reigns over their studies."
"The Romans will come and destroy our city and nation."
"But that can only be done by scattering some other bodies in the space between (C) and (d); there must be, then, some tiny bodies emitted by the magnets to occupy this space."
"I will add something stronger: To permit the evil, as God permits it, is the greatest goodness."
"It seems, indeed, that the soul to him was only a transient modification; and when he pretends to make it lasting, and even perpetual, he substitutes for it the idea of the body, which is purely a notion and not a real and actual thing."
"For the scope of our senses is limited to the natural order of things as God has established it."
"I need not pause to show the worth of these remedies."
"'It is a puzzling question whether bodies have some natural property of doing harm or good to man's soul."
"I have cause to make this request, not only because I have the right to require of the readers judging me that they not condemn me without understanding me, but also for other reasons I need not set out here."
"I will say nothing of the Socinians, who relish them even less."
"That Father was in Franconia when there was a frenzy there for burning alleged sorcerers."
"It is fairly difficult to be persuaded that Descartes positively believed that the cause of hardness was different from that of elasticity; what appears more probable is that he did not reflect enough upon this matter."
"The animal spirits do not flow into the various parts of the body to perform even their ordinary functions, but instead impress such deep traces of the objects they represent that they rupture enough of the brain's fibers to make the idea that they have excited indelible."
"The first man enjoyed pleasure, then, in the use he made of sensible goods."
"That essence therefore (by."
"Here is a general proof of all errors inro which sight leads us concerning motion."
"The third thing, fmally, is that probabilities need not be utterly despised, because several probabilities joined together generally can produce as much conviction as can very clear demonstrations."
", we should not judge that opinions are true because they are new, nor that goods can satisfy us because they are new and extraordinary, when we have not yet possessed them."
"But if they are material, they will be either present or absent."
"(I should believe that it is rather the detached part of the steel that ignites, for when with a microscope we look at the sparks of fire we have collected, we see that it is the iron that has been melted and reduced to balls or shards, and I have noticed no change in the slivers broken from the flint."
"on the contrary, the hyperbolic doubts of these past days can be dismissed as ridiculous."
"For only God properly has being, and necessarily exists, since everything dependent exists only through the will of Him upon whom they depend."
"He knew the mind of man well enough to judge that such proofs had not been rejected."
"The result of all these comparisons and deliberations is the choice of the best from among all these possible systems, which wisdom makes in order to satisfy goodness completely; and such is precisely the plan of the universe as it is."
"Virtue is human power, which is defined solely by man's essence."
"Therefore, the heavens (which move circularly) are simple, and the first and most divine of the simple bodies."
"It renders creatures more Bit."
"Let satirists then laugh their fill at human affairs, let theologians rail, and let misanthropes praise to their utmost the life of untutored rusticity, let them heap contempt on men and praises on beasts; when all is said, they will find that men can provide for their wants much more easily by mutual help, and that only by uniting their forces can they escape from the dangers that on every side beset them: not to say how much more excellent and worthy of our knowledge it is, to study the actions of men than the actions of beasts."
"It was principally persons of this kind who ascribed to the gods the cause of their evil deeds.'."
"It is true that we know with sufficient precision the relation that bodies close to us have to our own body, but the further they are from us"
"Though this be so, no one will endeavour to hate anything, or to be affected with pain, for the sake of enjoying this greater pleasure; that is, no one will desire that he should be injured, in the hope of recovering from the injury, nor long to be ill for the sake of getting well."
"This matter is of utmost importance for both physics and morals."
"We can, for example, resolve all questions that lead to discovering exact relations between two and eight because, since two and eight are exactly known, we can compare them in all ways necessary for recognizing their exact relations of quantity or quality."
"Not only do philosophers say what they do not conceive when they explain natural effects through certain beings of which they have not one single particular idea, they even furnish a principle from which one can directly infer very false and very dangerous conclusions."
"I have sufficiently explained myself on this point in chapter four of book three."
"and because only those who cannot discern what is self evident from what is not stop to prove the evident by the obsl ure."
"The best way from one point to another (leaving out of account obstacles and other considerations accidental to the medium) is one alone: it is that one which passes by the shortest line, which is the straight line."
"First, because the ideas are not strongly connected to the traces, when the spirits are agitated, they render these traces deep and lasting."
"For we see, that the pain arising from the loss of any good is mitigated, as soon as the man who has lost it perceives, that it could not by any means have been preserved."
"For although we afterwards learn, that the sun is distant from us more than six hundred of the earth's diameters, we none the less shall fancy it to be near; for we do not imagine the sun as near us, because we are ignorant of its true distance, but because the modification of our body involves the essence of the sun, in so far as our said body is affected thereby."
"We are naturally convinced that pleasure is the mark of good, and this natural conviction is certainly true, for whatever causes pleasure is certainly quite good and worthy of love."
"Thus, the certitude of the principles of Descartes's philosophy cannot be used as a proof for defending his rules of motion; and there is room to believe that if Descartes himself had once more examined his Principles without prejudice and by thinking of explanations similar to those I have stated, he would not have believed that the effects of nature had confirmed his rules, and would not have fallen into contradiction by attributing the hardness of bodies only to the state of rest of their parts, and their elasticity with regard to the effort of subtle matter."
"Few subjects are more deserving of the attention of those seeking the truth, attempting to deliver themselves from the tyranny of their bodies, or wishing to judge all things on the basis of true ideas."
"But who does not see that that only proves a hypothetical impossibility?"
"See also the Elucidation on the same c:haptcr."
"I have also shown in addition what are the foundations of a state; and the difference between true virtue and infirmity may be readily gathered from what I have said; namely, that true virtue is nothing else but living in accordance with reason; while infirmity is nothing else"
"For it must be noted that the same water does not always produce the same refraction; warm it produces less than when cold, because then it is not only less heavy than it was when cold, but also the parts of which it is composed are more in motion."
"I could not completely do so with words."
"Not only is it right"
"as much in those who are in enor as in those who are right."
"Hatred can never be good."
"Yet I feel that a strict interpretation must be given of the passages I have just cited and that both man and woman must be said to be real causes of sin, each in their own way; woman in that through her sin is communicated (since through her man begets children), and man because his sin is the cause of concupiscence (since his action is the cause of the woman's fecundity, or of the communication between the woman and her child)."
"Blindmen would be wrong if, because they did not perceive any sensible differences between faces, they were to suppose an essential, indivisible likeness between them."
"I am a thinking thing,"
"I think it must be agreed that not all the modifications of which the soul is capable are known, and that besides those it has through the sense organs, it may have an infinity of others it has not experienced and will experience only after it has been delivered from the captivity of its body."
"Inasmuch as it teaches us, how we ought to conduct ourselves with respect to the gifts of fortune, or matters which are not in our power, and do not follow from our nature."
"Here we already have an almost infinite number of figures, the greatest part of which remain unnoticed by our eyes, which even lead the mind, relying too much on their capacity and not investigating things carefully enough, believe that these figures do not exist."
"The other faculty of matter is that it is capable of receiving various instances of motion, whereas the other faculty of the soul is that it is capable of receiving various inclinations."
"It is impossible to have studied anything, or to have mastered any science, and not realize this; one cannot be an author or a doctor and not remember it."
"but, on the other hand (by hypothesis), we conceive certain things excluding its present existence."
"existence appertains to its nature, or (what is the same thing) follows from its definition; therefore, God is eternal (by Def."
"An example of the lack of order in Aristotle."
"He himself warns that in reading his works we must take care that he is not mistaken, and we must believe nothing he says unless we are obliged to do so by the evidence."
"Its part See the first figure ."
"he chose that possible world in which everything was ordered in this fashion."
"Persons of imagination therefore have the advantage of being able to please, affect, and persuade, because they form very vivid and sensible images of their thoughts."
"The majority of questions treated in morals and especially in physics are of this nature, and for this reason we should mistrust many of the books composed daily on these most obscure and confusing matters."
"In a word, I am of opinion that the will is always more inclined towards the course it adopts, but that it is never bound by the necessity to adopt it."
"The examples just presented suffice to prove that the imagination's great facility for representing familiar objects, and the difficulty it encounters in imagining those new to it, nearly always makes men form ideas that can be called mixed and impure, and that the mind judges things in relation to itself and to its first thoughts."
"In the operations of Nature, these reasons will depend either upon necessary truths or upon the laws that God has found the most reasonable; and in the operations of God, they will depend upon the choice of the supreme reason which causes them to act."
"Sec also the fifth and si th Meditation chrhi me."
"Virtues are virtues only because they serve perfection or prevent the imperfection of those who are virtuous, or even of those who have to do with them."
"But if one should not render sovereign honor to leeks and onions, one can always render them some particular adoration; I mean, one can think of them and love them to some extent, if it is true that they can to some extent make us happy."
"Novelty should only urge men to examine new things carefully; they should not hold these new things in contempt, since they do not know them."
"It is located there for the maintenance and preservation of aU"
"Bayle goes on, 'the fatality of all things, ensues: God will not have been free to arrange events in a different way, since the means he chose to show forth his glory was the only means befitting his wisdom.'"
"These observations are easily grasped after what has been said in the explanation of the preceding definition (cf."
"It is true that they are not inactive or negligent"
"What must make the soul happy is not, as it were, the comprehension of an infinite object of this it is incapable but the love and possession of an infinite good, which the will is capable of through the impulse of love continually impressed on it by God."
"If things, therefore, could have been of a different nature, or have been conditioned to act in a different way, so that the order of nature would have been different, God's nature would also have been able to be different from what it now is; and therefore (by Prop. xi.)"
"Cicero had said (in his book De Fato that Carneades had found something more subtle than the deviation of atoms, attributing the cause of a so called absolutely undefined indifference to the voluntary motions of souls, because these motions have no need of an external cause, coming as they do from our nature."
"; id modo quaeritur, si majori parti et in summam prodest."
"Again, pleasure postulates the existence of the pleasurably affected thing."
"Cato vereor ne supra nostrum exemplar sit."
"How we know our own souls."
"Nonetheless, a very The SelU'ch after great number of disciples let themselves be seduced, and blindly submit to the authority of these philosophers without even understanding their views."
"But we often attribute to man something that belongs to woman, because the husband is her lord and master."
"Since it is difficult for a very tensed muscle to maintain a precisely equal tension for a long time, God, in order to assist the muscle compressing the eye and to make the slight inequalities in its tension imperceptible, made it pass through the cartilage called the pulley so that the friction of the muscle against the cartilage might partially resist the elastic action of the envelope of the eye."
"Such a choice would be, as it were, mere chance, without determining reason, whether apparent or hidden."
"DialoRues on Metaphysics."
"Those who do not make profound examination', he says Dictionary art. '"
"The real means whereby God causes the soul to be conscious of what happens in the body have their origin in the nature of the soul, which represents the bodies, and is so made beforehand that the representations which are to spring up one from another within it, by a natural sequence of thoughts, correspond to the changes in the body."
"exhibits, from that which, with the same mind originally, this individual would have possessed"
"For to be able to make a mistake and go astray is a disadvantage, and to have control over the passions is in truth an advantage, but one that presupposes an imperfection, namely passion itself, of which God is incapable."
"But here we are only discussing a physical good and evil, and one must compare in detail the prosperities and the adversities of this life."
"Again, whatsoever brings about a change in the aforesaid proportion causes the human body to assume another specific character"
"They increase and diminish as the vortexes of which they are centers receive more or less of the first element."
"We should perform this experiment if we wish to judge solidly the reasoning of this author."
"But when one comprises limitations and privations under the term realities one may say that the second causes co operate in the production of that which is limited; otherwise God would be the cause of sin, and even the sole cause."
"If the text implied that, the abatement would, as regards its duration, go on to infinity; and yet that abatement would, as regards its extent, have a non plus ultra."
"Thus, the subtle matter at the surface of the sun does not have one two hundredth of the circular speed necessary to support the compression or weight of the vortex through its centrifugal force, for whatever impels matter toward the center around which it revolves can be called weight."
"Weak, I say, in relation to the light of the first reflection, and all the weaker as there are fewer vortexes in water than in air."
"There are perhaps conjunctures wherein something of the kind takes place."
"Bayle was attacked by excellent men who set themselves to examine the same subject; he answered them fully and always ingeniously."
"To be sure, we can assert what we clearly conceive."
"I mean what is absolute."
"In short, all these comparisons, spoken of in these maxims that."
"; if contrary, it will be contrary to that which is in harmony with our nature, that is, contrary to what is good in short, bad."
"and whatever varies quantitatively."
"They nevertheless admit that they were wretched because of the pain they endured, although they were made happy by the hope of eternal reward."
"The impious, on the other hand, are constantly afflicted with mortal anxieties, and those the world shares with God also share the joy of the just and the anxieties of the impious; they complain of their miseries, and they too should be believed that their laments are not without foundation."
"But because some people will perhaps expect some proofs of the soul's immortality here, I think I should warn them right away that I have tried to put nothing in this treatise that I do not rigorously demonstrate."
"Yet after it has listened, the soul usually wants to judge."
"One thing is certain, that the existence of God is not an effect of his will."
"This physical communication, if there were such, would cause the soul to change the degree of speed and the directional line of some motions that are in the body, and vice versa"
"For most philosophers had not very distinct notions of the nature of the soul."
"Bayle combats those inward experiences, whereon"
"He was all the more tempted to accede to their requests since he had reason to hope that in the sequel to his investigation."
"We learn them either by experience, that is, a posteriori or by reason and"
"Therefore, d/xx=Divv."
"I could have proved that the soul's modes are not representative of the infinite or of anything else, or that ideas are very different from our perceptions of them, by proofs other than the ones I have just drawn from this common notion, that nothingness is not perceptible."
"What is true for some of them is often false for others."
"Moreover, the grace that does not serve the one may serve the other, and indeed always serves the totality of God's plan, which is the best possible in conception."
"God causes us to feel in our duty."
"; in other words (obviously), that which is contained in the intellect in representation must necessarily be granted in nature."
"As regards as a true idea, we have shown that it is simple or compounded of simple ideas; that it shows how and why something is or has been made; and that its subjective effects in the soul correspond to the actual reality of its object."
"They attribute human infirmities and fickleness, not to the power of nature in general, but to some mysterious flaw in the nature of man, which accordingly they bemoan, deride, despise, or, as usually happens, abuse: he, who succeeds in hitting off the weakness of the human mind more eloquently or more acutely than his fellows, is looked upon as a seer."
"Propinquior nobis qui fecit, quam multa quae facta sunt."
"For only from this matter can fire draw its force or motion, because it is certain that a body can move only through the action of those surrounding it or striking it."
"How many passions are mixed with this passion for false learning, and how they all strive to justify it and warmly solicit judgments in its favor!"
"Now since everything resolves itself into this greatest perfection, we return to my law of the best."
"This is tire source of tire corruption of morals."
"How is all this and an infinity of similar effects brought about?"
"Servire me fecistis in peccatis vestris lsa."
"And I hope that the meaning of these axioms will be better apprehended after what I have just said."
"For it seems to me that we should not put certain incontestable propositions in the class of problems when we distinctly perceive their terms."
"But we must bear in mind, that stimulation and suffering are attributed to man, when one part of his nature is more affected than the rest, merriment and melancholy, when all parts are alike affected."
"Thence the conclusion should have been drawn that this is the case (as I have already observed above) because there is seen in these objects something entire and isolated, so to speak."
"All conversations that raise this subject are always attended with fear and fascination."
"we see that there is none and that there can be none."
"However, in order not to omit anything which can conduce to the knowledge of the understanding and its faculties, I will add a few words on the subject of memory and forgetfulness."
"that God acts by the same necessity, as that by which he understands himself; in other words, as it follows from the necessity of the divine nature (as all admit), that God understands himself, so also does it follow by the same necessity, that God performs infinite acts in infinite ways."
"We tried to explain their nature, and to determine isely what usc ought to be made of them."
"For instance, if a man sees that he is too keen in the pursuit of honour, let him think over its right use, the end for which it should be pursued, and the means whereby he may attain it."
"are of no avail; for we can judge by this method that certain objects are Sec lhe Elucidations on this chapcer in tbeRisponM iJ. Rigis."
"This was enough to enable this malign spirit to persuade the enemies of our religion (who are easily excitable over maners as delicate as those of religion) that Descartes is an emissary of the Jesuits with dangerous plots, because the slightest appearance of truth in matters of faith has more force upon men's minds th in real and positive truths of physics or metaphysics, to which they have given very linle effort."
", we have some grounds for believing that things forming no idea in the mind when we examine them are like nothingness."
"Therefore, if it should happen that one of our friends, that is to say."
"other such questions depending on so many causes that no certain explanation of them can be given."
"Finally, God creates and preserves man in order to be known and loved by him; therefore, his mind's capacity must not be filled, even partially and in spite of himself, by knowledge of the infinite configurations and figures of the bodies surrounding him and of the one he animates."
"But the ear cannot be said to judge through a clear idea or otherwise than through sensation."
"For the mind can will to apply itself only to the things of which it has some idea, and it now has the power to think about only those things to which it can will to apply itself."
"Finishing the last two treatises was difficult; the difficulty with this one is in beginning."
"Th arch aft Conclusion of the first two books."
", in so far as he is considered as affected by the idea of the said object, that is."
"Bayle's opinion) sets up the first proposition as an objection for himself, and replies to the second."
"which is often only something imaginary, is really in some object."
"We can delight in beholding our natural perfections."
"It is not that we cannot go back and thus discover the true system on which all particular effects depend, provided we accept only clear ideas; but this manner of doing philosophy is neither the shortest nor the most correct."
"It is agreed that there are cases where one must reject a literal interpretation that is not absolutely impossible, when it is otherwise unsuitable."
"Suppose I wish to determine, for example."
"For it cannot be doubted that God has the idea of the bodies He has created and constantly moves, that He can find this idea only in His substance, and that He is at least able to inform us of it."
"de/omiDii pulli in, by Mlllpighi."
"And this consideration will assist me greatly, not only to be aware of all the errors to which my nature is liable, but also to correct or avoid them easily."
"But it must be borne in mind that when one has foreseen the evil and has not prevented it although it seems as if one could have done so with ease, and one has even done things that have facilitated it, it does not follow on that account necessarily that one is accessary thereto."
"Thus, it is evident that the soul could not move its arm, even if it had the power of determining the motion of the animal spirits in the brain."
"In the third place, it is necessary to consider as attentively as possible the conditions expressed in a question, if there are any, because without that we understand the state of the question only confusedly, besides which the conditions ordinarily lead the way to resolving it."
"Accordingly, seeing that our senses sometimes deceive us, I was willing to suppose that there existed nothing really such as they presented to us; and because some men err in reasoning, and fall into paralogisms, even on the simplest matters of geometry, I, convinced that I was as open to error as any other, rejected as false all the reasonings I had hitherto taken for demonstrations; and finally, when I considered that the very same thoughts (presentations) which we experience when awake may also be experienced when we are asleep, while there is at that time not one of them true, I supposed that all the objects (presentations) that had ever entered into my mind when awake, had in them no more truth than the illusions of my dreams."
"For, as we have just seen, it suffices in imperfect questions to have imperfect ideas"
"we an: to some extent using our imagination while we are conceiving an abstract truth."
"But there is a question more serious in regard to predestination to eternal life and to all other destination by God, to wit, whether this destination is absolute or respective."
"Nonetheless, if one considers that plants which receive their growth from the action of their mothers resemble them much more than those from seeds, as tulips, for example, which come from a bulb, are normally of the same colors as their mother, those from a seed being almost always very different, one cannot doubt that if communication of the mother with the offspring is not absolutely necessary to its being the same species, then at least it is always necessary to its being completely like the mother."
"determinationem ad unum secundum qualitatem actus licet non quoad ejus substantiam that is to say, a determination to evil in the non regenerate, as if they did nothing but sin."
"The Search after Let us reflect further that those who have more fire or a little wine in their heads are swifter than others; that among animals, those who have more agitated spirits, such as birds, move more swiftly than those with cold blood such as frogs, and that there are even some, such as the chameleon, the tortoise, and some insects, whose spirits are agitated so little that their muscles are not filled any more swiftly than a small balloon into which one would blow."
"But this is to say exactly what I maintain; for since my will determines the practical will of God, it is evident that my arm will be moved not by my will, which in itself is impotent, but by God's, which can never fail to have its effect."
"But it is apparently the printer's fault that prudenter stands in place of pudenter (that is, modestly) which the metre requires."
"The general causes of the errors of our passions are exactly like those causing the errors of our senses."
"It draws its perfection from no other thing."
"But what proof have you of this?"
"It is true that God may command something and yet not will that it be done, as when he commanded Abraham to sacrifice his son: he willed the obedience, and he did not will the action."
"The false luster of human traditions does not dazzle them to the point of not sensing the light of truth."
"Unde cognoscit cam secundum omnem modum quo cognoscibilis est."
"Plutarch De Stoicor."
"In fact, these emotions are not so much concerned with the actual feasting, drinking, andc."
"Thus, his joy was not excessive; it was, or should have been, mixed with a kind of fear, for he should have distrusted himself."
"Only reason tells them that God alone acts in them."
"For the actual presence of particular ideas positively determines toward particular goods our impulse toward the good in general and changes our natural love into voluntary love when we rest."
"Finally I hold that God cannot act as if at random by an absolutely absolute decree, or by a will independent of reasonable motives."
"If several distinct substances be granted, they must be distinguished one from the other, either by the difference of their attributes, or by the difference of their modifications (Prop. iv."
"It appears to me certain, then, that God through particular volitions initially formed man and all the different natures of animals and plants and at the same time something in each of them to preserve their kind, and also at the same time through particular volitions (for it could not be otherwise before the collision of bodies) so regulated the first motions of matter"
"Thus, when we speak or walk, when we think and will, God makes us such as we are He creates us speaking, walking, thinking, willing."
"This is why only these sorts of truths are considered in arithmetic, algebra, and geometry, because these universal sciences both determine and contain all the particular sciences."
"I open my eyes in the middle of the countryside and I instantaneously see an A more exact and more extensive explanation of Providence will be found in the Dialogut on Metaphysics and Religion."
"The conclusion to be drawn from this doctrine would seem to be that the creature never exists, that it is ever newborn and ever dying, like time, movement and other transient beings."
"vcnientibus relinquere"
"By attribute, I mean that which the intellect perceives as constituting the essence of substance."
"In this sense it may be said that God tends to all good, as good, ad perfectionem simpliciter simplicem to speak like the Schoolmen, and that by an antecedent will."
"Those who like orange blossom may find roses unbearable, and vice versa."
"For after all, when one composes a mischievous book, one is the cause of wasted time for many people while they read it, and is responsible for their often falling into the same errors he has fallen into, and for their deducing many others from them, which is no small harm."
"By the intellect we do not (obviously) mean absolute thought, but only a certain mode of thinking, differing from other modes, such as love, desire, andc., and therefore (Def.)"
"As there is no emotion in the soul, neither is there any movement in the body."
"I, It!, 'Is, then should be divided at the points marked I, or I, Yz, /s."
"It is easy to understand that pleasure and pain, heat, and even colors are not modes of bodies, that sense qualities in general are not contained in the idea we have of matter, in short, that our senses do not represent sensible objects to us as they are in themselves, but as they are in relation to the preservation of our life and health."
"those of rather feeble intellect should think that they too should set out on that path."
"The main proof adduced by philosophers for the efficacy of secondary causes is drawn from man's will and his freedom."
"If the author of whom we are speaking had not filled his book with Greek passages, with many names of obscure and little known authors, and with similar remarks all quite useless for understanding the common notions, definitions of terms, and postulates of geometry, who would have read his book?"
"that the images of the said things should be more often associated with the images of these than with the images of something else."
"I beg those who read this work to think about this, to notice examples of it in conversation in which they find themselves, and to reflect upon what takes place in their own minds on these occasions."
"It cannot be doubted that God is the author of all things."
"He is earnestly disposed to sanctify and to save all men, to exclude sin, and to prevent damnation."
"Now God is one (Part., Prop. xiv., Coroll."
"But these are problems of which it is hard for us to judge."
"sed non in hoc justificatus sum: qui autem judicat me Dominus est."
"And I do not see that they can be delivered from it unless they make and constantly renew the resolution never to believe anyone on his word or before having attached distinct ideas to the commonest words others use."
"Thus, they are completely useless for resolving a single question."
"that is, a substance consisting in infinite attributes, of which each expresses eternal and infinite essentiality."
"God knows the nature of the soul clearly because He finds in Himself a clear and representative idea of it."
"We see that there is a God as soon as we see the infinite, because necessary existence is included in the idea of the infinite, or to speak more clearly, because we can only apprehend the infinite in the infinite itself."
"If the mind were made attentive to these small parts of duration through sensations that would leave traces in the brain it could remember, the mind would undoubtedly find it much longer than it appears."
"Mind, the substance that thinks, and body, the substance that is extended, are two entirely different and completely contrary kinds of beings what belongs to the one cannot belong to the other."
"Two men may therefore be differently affected at the same time, and therefore (by Ax."
"Else would Jupiter have renounced his wisdom, he would have banished me, me his daughter."
"The man, who is guided by reason, does not obey through fear."
"What is round can become square"
"If, then, the person we are talking about receives some injury only in his imagination, or an injury that is real but slight, and that causes no great disturbance in his brain, the flow of animal spirits will be weak and languid, and perhaps will not be great enough to alter the body's ordinary natural disposition."
"There are also different members in the human body."
"It is through the general law of nature, through the will of God, that sensible objects produce certain kinds of motion in man's body, and that this motion excites certain sensations in the soul that help preserve the body or propagate the species."
"But the philosophy that is called new, which is represented as a specter to frighten feeble minds, which is scorned and condemned without being understood, the new philosophy, I say (since it is the fashion to call it thus), ruins all the arguments of the skeptics through the establishment of the greatest of its principles, which is in perfect hannony with the first principle of the Christian religion: that we must love and fear only one God, since there is only one God who can make us happy."
"Here is how and why."
"I say further that through reason we Elucidations of the Search after cannot ascertain whether the soul when separated from the body or taken in isolation from the body is capable of having any habits or memory."
"I will add to that the remark from the Journal des Savants of the th March which."
"It may be differently proved as follows: the actual being of ideas is (obviously) a mode of thought, that is (Part., Prop. xxv., Coroll.)"
"For as God always acts in the simplest ways, it does not seem reasonable to explain how we know objects by assuming the creation of an infinity of beings, since the difficulty can be resolved in an easier and more straightforward fashion."
"For it gives rise to emulation, excites to virtue, sustains courage in the service of our country, and we would not win so many victories if soldiers and especially officers did not aspire to glory and command."
"Producant aquae reptile animae viventis and volatile:"
"We must despise devils as we despise executioners, for we ought to tremble before God alone."
"It is therefore undoubtedly true."
"So, if we say that a man and a stone only agree in the fact that both are finite wanting in power, not existing by the necessity of their own nature, or, lastly, indefinitely surpassed by the power of external causes we should certainly affirm that a man and a stone are in no respect alike; therefore, things which agree only in negation, or in qualities which neither possess, really agree in no respect."
"God is not lacking therein, he could do the good that we would desire; he even wishes it, taking it separately, but he must not do it in preference to other greater goods which are opposed to it."
"As men seldom live under the guidance of reason, these two emotions, namely, Humility and Repentance, as also Hope and Fear, bring more good than harm; hence, as we must sin, we had better sin in that direction."
"I find it appropriate to say that the soul preexisting in the seeds from the beginning of things was only sentient, but that it was elevated to the superior degree, which is that of reason, when the man to whom this soul should belong was conceived, and when the organic body, always accompanying this soul from the beginning, but under many changes, was determined for forming the human body."
"the one is excellent and the other worthless, the only explanation is the unequal weight or density of the parts of the glass, which causes the inequality in the refraction."
"But when grace leads someone to leave the world to become a religious, certainly he does not lack motive to examine and suspend consent."
"For, if we were to assert, haply, that men are suddenly turned into beasts, the statement would be extremely general, so general that there would be no conception, that is, no idea or connection of subject and predicate, in our mind."
"For the explanation of habits, it is necessary to understand the way in which there is reason to think that the soul moves the parts of the body to which it is united, which is this: by all appearances, there are always in some places in the brain, wherever they may be, a very great number of animal spirits, highly agitated by the heat of the heart"
"Man, for example, has only one crystalline lens in each eye, the fly has more than a thousand but arranged with a marvelous order and precision."
", instances of motion and figure, for one can pen:"
"Rather, they should be made to distrust their own mind by having its weakness, limitation, and disproportion with our mysteries made plain to them; and when their mind's pride has been conquered, it will then be easier to introduce them into the views of the church by putting it to them that infallibility is included in the idea of every divine socie and by explaining to them, if they are capable of it, the tradition of the ages."
"Hitherto it has been supposed that the substance remains, and that the accidents change; and I think one ought still to abide by this ancient doctrine, for the arguments I remember having read do not prove the contrary, and prove more than is needed. '"
"Yet Saint Paul teaches us that it is through man that sin has entered into the world."
"that the mind always regards things as present to itself, even though they be not in existence, until some causes arise which exclude their existence and presence."
"It was completely forgotten for several centuries."
"For example, we know from our own experience that we are led to form an ill opinion of those whom we do not like and to view them in a light colored by the animus of our passion."
"In the end this Eccles."
"Yet where is the man who knows not on the one hand that he is in absolute ignorance as to how ideas are made, and on the other hand, that he could not sew two stitches if he were ignorant of how to sew?"
"But, with all due respect, these terms are no more meaningful in their mouth than in the mouth of the Peripatetics."
"For my principal aim in this Elucidation has been to show that all of physics depends on the knowledge of subtle matter, that this matter is composed only of small vortexes that through the equilibrium of their centrifugal forces produce the consistency of all bodies, and through the disruption of their equilibirum, which they constantly tend to restore."
"Were I not afraid of boring the reader, I would translate a few chapters of Aristotle."
"And if one assumes that fish are capable of sensation, to all appearances they will still find it hot when all men find it cold."
"it is the foundation; moreover, it suffers no exception, for otherwise its force would be weakened."
"It is true that Spinoza's opinion on this subject is somewhat obscure: for he grants God thought, after having divested him of understanding, cogitationem, non intellectum concedit Deo."
"It suffices for us to have some analogical understanding of a Mystery such as the Trinity and the Incarnation, to the end that in accepting them we pronounce not words altogether devoid of meaning: but it is not necessary that the explanation go as far as we would wish, that is, to the extent of comprehension and to the how ."
"was then in Germany, attracted thither by the wars in that country, which have not yet been brought to a termination; and as I was returning to the army from the coronation of the emperor, the setting in of winter arrested me in a locality where, as I found no society to interest me, and was besides fortunately undisturbed by any cares or passions, I remained the whole day in seclusion, with full opportunity to occupy my attention with my own thoughts."
"This, I say, is necessary for our purpose, for our thoughts may be brought to a close by the absence of a foundation."
"Not only are there dispositions in our brain that excite sensations and impulses in us in relation to the propagation of the species and the preservation of life, but there are perhaps also a great number of dispositions that awaken thoughts and passions in us in relation to society, our particular concerns as well as the concerns of our friends."
"The power of every individual thing, and consequently the power of man, whereby he exists and operates, can only be determined by an individual thing (I. xxviii.), whose nature."
"There are no walls and no towers in the sbOngest places that battering rams and other engines of war cannot shake and eventually topple."
"he has no conception of evil, or consequently (good and evil being correlative) of good."
"For, after it has formed a fictitious idea, and has given its assent thereto, it cannot think or feign it in any other manner, but is constrained by the first fictitious idea to keep all its other thoughts in harmony therewith."
"The same ball that goes twice as fast as another in a given time has twice as much force or motion in that time as the other; but we cannot say that the same ball has twice as much rest in a given time as another."
"But perhaps it is a matter of not bothering to think seriously about what is being said; or else of not wanting to accept an explanation contrary to the hearsay of people who perhaps speak with more gravity and self assurance than enlightenment."
"We must not be surprised therefore if our strength is not as great as that of this same subtle matter from which we receive it."
"ch. ., who asserted that everything had been brought forth by the necessity of a nature devoid of intelligence"
"But it is better to repeat than to confuse, because our first duty is to be intelligible, and in this case the best I can do is to repeat without boring the reader."
"But I see nothing to prevent the creature's co operation with God for the production of any other thing: and especially might this concern its inward operation, as in the case of a thought or a volition, things really distinct from the substance."
"That cannot be right"
", the same constantly efficacious will."
"They have the sensation of the meat they are eating (which the objection assumes); but they also have the further sensation of disgust, which springs, for example, from vividly imagining the foreign matterthey have seen to be mixed with what they are eating."
"So a judge, who condemns a criminal to death, not from hatred or anger but from love of the public well being, is guided solely by reason."
": it is that the infidels we are trying to convert falsely imagine, to their inevitable detriment, that our authors have such extravagant opinions, and consequently they condemn them and despise them as ignorant men."
"In a word, let us conceive of the matter contained in this balloon roughly as Descartes described the matter of our vortex, except that the tiny balls of his second element, which he assumed to be hard, are themselves but tiny vortexes, or at least are hard only through the compression of the matter surrounding them."
"the Treatise on re and Grau."
"Most men, and especially the poor, who are the most worthy object of the mercy and providence of the Creator, those who are obliged to work in order to earn their living, are extremely come and stupid; they hear only because they have em and see only because they have eyes."
"And therefore, since God always acts with order, and according to the rules of justice, all pleasure in His institution inclines us toward some right action or rewards us for it, and all pain deters us from some wrong action or punishes us for it."
"Thus he who would govern his emotions and appetite solely by the love of freedom strives, as far as he can, to gain a knowledge of the virtues and their causes, and to fill his spirit with the joy which arises from the true knowledge of them: he will in no wise desire to dwell on men's faults, or to carp at his fellows, or to revel in a false show of freedom."
"Chapter Four Two bad effects of reading upon the imagination."
"comparing all the pans, without being distracted."
"He moves our anns even when we use them against His orders; for He complains through His prophetb that we make Him serve our unjust and criminal desires."
"But it happens only too often that religion is choked in ceremonial, and that the divine light is obscured by the opinions of men."
"I even believe that the habit of their charity was not preceded by any act of love of God."
"I am not speaking here of the union we have with the mind of other men, for from that union"
"Cicero says in his book De Fato that Democritus, Heraclitus, Empedocles and Aristotle believed that fate implied necessity; that others were opposed to that"
"If they be not conditioned by God (Prop. xxvi.), it is impossible, and not contingent, that they should condition themselves; contrariwise, if they be conditioned by God, it is impossible, and not contingent, that they should render themselves unconditioned."
"Nevertheless, I do not call inclinations of the will or motion in matter"
"Nevertheless, philosophers unreflectingly assume essential likenesses between bodies of the same kind, or likenesses that are indivisible, for according to their false view, the essences of things are indivisible."
"The fust, which are called pure perceptions, are, as it were, superficial to the soul: they do not make an impression on it and do not sensibly modify it."
"If man is considered in his present state of malady, it must be admitted that his senses often deceive him even in those things that are related to the preservation of his life."
"to instruct themselves in morality from an author so injudicious as Seneca, whose imagination is so strong, so lively, and so imperious that it dazzles, distracts, and carries away those with but little firmness of mind and much sensibility for all that flatters the concupiscence of pride."
"Thus love of the best in the whole carries the day over all other individual inclinations or hatreds; it is the only impulse whose very exercise is absolutely infinite, nothing having power to prevent God from declaring himself for the best; and some vice being combined with the best possible plan, God permits it. '"
"By mode, I mean the modifications of substance, or that which exists in, and is conceived through, something other than itself."
", one could not help saying that, despite all their exhortations, they must certainly be desirous of the sick man's death.'"
"Thus, although the motions occurring in the body differ in themselves only in degree, nonetheless, if considered in relation to the preservation of our life, they can be said to differ essentially."
"For instance, a number of unconnected words is much more difficult to remember than the same number in the form of a narration."
"Thus Mr. Hobbes's argument leaves the matter where it is."
"The second rule is that novelty is not a reason that should lead us to believe that things are good or"
"Let us again examine whether the stone's weight does not result from the fact that the subtle matter revolves around the earth much faster than the stone, and that thus tending to grasp its top by the centrifugal force resulting from its greater speed, it impels the stone toward the earth."
"The reason or cause why God or Nature exists, and the reason why he acts, are one and the same."
"This proposition is self evident, for the definition of anything affirms the essence of that thing, but does not negative it; in other words, it postulates the essence of the thing, but does not take it away."
"They do not know the genealogy of currently reigning princes, but they carefully research those of men who have been dead for four thousand years."
"It is true that some of them after twenty or thirty years of lost time realize they have learned nothing in their readings, though to say so with sincerity does not please them."
"Our senses instruct us only for the benefit of the body, and all free judgments in agreement with the judgments of sense are far removed from the truth."
"Hence I would very strongly urge my readers not to pass judgement upon these Meditations before they have taken the trouble to read through all these objections and my replies to them."
"What can he conclude from these pompous and magnificent descriptions of changes that occur in the world?"
"For, in order to be free, I do not have to be able to be moved in either direction."
"This kind of love begets that pleasure in good actions which gives relief to virtue, and, relating all to God as to the centre, transports the human to the divine."
"Axi ma aut verum esse aut falsum."
"For since God cannot act in ignorance and in spite of Himself, He created the world according to wisdom and through the impulse of His love"
"Most of the nobility, courtiers, rich people, the young, and those called fine minds, being constantly engaged in amusements and studying nothing but the art of pleasure through whatever flatters concupisc::ence and the senses, gradually ac::quire such a delicacy in these matters, or such a softness, that they can very often be said to be of an effeminate slate of mind rather than fine minds, as they pretend to be."
"Four things we confuse in each sensation."
"The second covering, which ends at the opening of the pupil is finer; it is called the uvea or the choroid."
"Even stones and glass are perhaps food for certain insects."
"So the will of men is necessary in order to regulate the connection of the same ideas with the same traces, although this will to agree is not so much an affect of their choice and reason as it is an impression ofthe Author of nature who made us all for each other, and with vecy strong inclination to unite spiritually as much as we are in body."
"But desire is animated by love, strengthened by hope, increased by joy, renewed by dread, accompanied by courage, envy, anger, and several other passions that in tum form an infinite variety of judgments that succeed one another and sustain the desire giving birth to them."
"That is the tendency of sundry good books that we have on the truth of religion, such as those of Augustinus Steuchus, of Du Plessis Mornay or of Grotius: for the true religion must needs have marks that the false religions have not, else would Zoroaster, Brahma, Somonacodom and Mahomet be as worthy of belief as Moses and Jesus Christ."
"I established an order to guide myself, but I hold that I am allowed to tum my head as I walk, if I find something thctt deserves to be considered."
", can we say that when it leads us to perform some good work, concupiscence does not provide sufficient motive to leave the soul at least the power to suspend its consent, the freedom to think, the time to examine, especially if it is a good work we are not in the habit of practicing?"
"For besides the fact that matter, itself a purely passive substance, cannot act on the mind, and that there is no necessary relation between certain disturbances of the brain's fibers produced by the light reflected by objects and the perceptions we have of them, the same disturbances are followed by different perceptions, and different disturbances are accompanied by the same perceptions, as we shall see in what follows."
"I once read with enjoyment the Euthyphro of Plato, who makes Socrates uphold the truth on that point, and."
"A diligas oportet Greek:"
"This proposition follows from xxiii."
"Thus, following this philosophy we should love only God, for it teaches us that only He is the cause of our happiness."
"Finally, he would have said, the existence of certain particular disadvantages which strike us is a sure indication that the best plan did not permit of their avoidance, and that they assist in the achievement of the total good, an argument wherewith."
"But without pausing further to prepare the mind of the reader, of whom it is much more appropriate to believe that he is sufficiently inclined by himself to the search after truth, let us examine the causes and the nature of our enors; and at."
"The one is the principle of contradiction stating that of two contradictory propositions the one is true, the other false; the other principle is that of the determinant reason it states that nothing ever comes to pass without there being a cause or at least a reason determining it, that is, something to give an a priori reason why it is existent rather than non existent, and in this wise rather than in any other."
"But neither is there any relation between the mind and body, and since nature or the will of the Creator allies these two substances (however opposed in their nature they may be), it should not be surprising if their modifications are reciprocal."
"albeit God loves his wisdom of necessity, the actions whereto his wisdom prompts him cannot but be free, and the objects whereto his wisdom does not prompt him do not cease to be possible."
") they assert, in order to prove that it is finite, that it is composed of finite parts, and that it can be multiplied and divided."
"I grant that recourse to God or the universal cause should not be had when the explanation of particular effects is sought."
"From this it is clear that without arithmetic and geometry."
"Through my external senses I see colors on the surface of bodies, hear sound in the air, feel pain in my hand, and I fall into error if I judge these things on the basis of what my senses report."
"It should be further noted that the soul does not judge those objects as most remote whose image on the retina is smallest."
"aliquando sub nomine Pbilosophorum introducantur, neque sic es!"
", which is engendered in us in so far as we act, is the actual essence or nature of man, in so far as it is conceived as determined to such activities as are adequately conceived through man's essence only."
"only He can act on our mind and reveal Himself to it."
"It is therefore useless to attribute to the mind of man the power of producing its ideas."
"But if we consider the people of more remote lands, we shall encounter even stranger differences, as between an Italian and a Aeming or a Dutchman."
"When the subjects he treats are simple and easy, his enors are simple, and it is easy enough to discover them."
"For we may gather from what has been said, that a true idea must necessarily first of all exist in us as a natural instrument; and that when this idea is apprehended by the mind, it enables us to understand the difference existing between itself and all other perceptions."
"For example, when philosophers say that fire is hot, grass green, sugar sweet, and so on, they mean, like children and the common man, that fire contains what they feel when they are warm; that grass has on it the colors they believe they see there; that sugar contains the sweetness that they sense in eating it, and so on of all things we see or feel."
"Accordingly, the child, neither accustomed to nor desirous of seeking the truth, fmally becomes incapable of discerning it, of making any usc of his reason."
"Nevertheless it happens that most men, and even Christians, introduce into their dealings some mixture of fate after the Turkish fashion, although they do not sufficiently acknowledge it."
"But what we clearly do not see, what seems incomprehensible, and what we deny when we deny the efficacy of secondary causes is that bodies have the power to act."
"I have explained it sufficiently by showing that there are cases where some disorder in the part is necessary for producing the greatest order in the whole."
"The disposition of the eyes associated with the angle formed by the visual rays intersecting and meeting in the object is therefore one of the best and most universal means employed by the soul in judging the distance of things."
"He had to know perfectly the nature of all the animals, for example, in order to assign to them, as he did, the names that belong to them."
"I know according to the assumption of number that all rays of light travel in a straight line and that those reflected from above the unknown object,.e."
"Thus, it is impossible for it to increase its convexity through the relaxation of the ciliary ligaments, md to decrease it through their contraction."
"Thus praise and blame, rewards and punishments would preserve always a large part of their use, even though there were a true necessity in our actions."
"It is always a sure sign that one is full of oneself; and Montaigne seems to me even more proud and vain when he censures than when he praises himself, because it is an unbearable conceit to take pride in his defects instead of being humiliated by them."
"But admiration for the ancients' reveries inspires them with a blind zeal against newly discovered truths, with the result that they discredit them without knowing them and oppose them without understanding them; and, through the strength of their imagination, they spread these same prejudices among the minds and hearts of their admirers."
"Bayle multiplies unnecessarily his so called maxims in opposition to my dogmas."
"): 'Those who advocate free will properly so called admit in man a power of determining, either to the right hand or the left, even when the motives are perfectly uniform on the side of each of the two opposing objects."
"By combining these ideas, and being at the same time certain of the truth of the axiom, they forthwith became convinced that the mind consists of very subtle bodies; that these very subtle bodies cannot be divided andc."
"no one can think of anywhere where there is greater perspicacity and seriousness, and a greater integrity and wisdom in passing judgement, than among yourselves, I do not doubt that if you deign to take an interest in this work first, by correcting it (for mindful of my own humanity and above all of my own ignorance, I do not claim that it contains no errors); secondly, where there are gaps, or imperfections, or parts that need further explanation, by adding to it, improving it, and clarifying it, or at least, pointing out these defects to me so that I can undertake the task; and finally, once the arguments contained in it, by which the existence of God and the distinction between mind and body are proved, have been brought to the degree of clarity to which I trust they can be brought, so that they can be considered as absolutely rigorous demonstrations, by agreeing to declare this and bear public witness to it"
"But we have no need of these opinions, and it is enough to keep to the ideas accepted in the Church."
"After this, a judgment for or against the authors may be formed."
"note), in other words."
"The point of resemblance was in the object (by hypothesis), when we regarded it with pleasure or pain, thus."
"Of these one of the very first that occurred to me was, that there is seldom so much perfection in works composed of many separate parts, upon which different hands had been employed, as in those completed by a single master."
"But I am not here concerned with these either, only with those things bestowed by God on me, as a composite of mind and body."
"Have they ever taken a square for a circle?"
"But the pleasure one feels when one thinks to find in the mythologies of the gods some trace of the old history of fabulous times has perhaps carried me too far, and I know not whether I shall have been any more successful than Goropius Becanus, Schrieckius, Herr Rudbeck and the Abbe de la Charmoye."
"In this manner, by cutting carefully in parts the squares on the two sides of the right angled triangle, and arranging these parts carefully, one makes from them the square on the hypotenuse; that is demonstrating empirically the th proposition of the first book of Euclid."
"Corruption of the heart consists in opposition to order."
"Even among those who enjoy it, some like one kind of music, others another, depending on the almost infmite variety found in the aural fibers, the blood, and the spirits."
"The joy they find in acting in accordance with God is the sole pleasure they enjoy, and this pleasure is enough to keep them in their present state and to confirm the disposition of their heart."
"So every man, according to his emotions, judges a thing to be good or bad, useful or useless."
"According to Plutarch De Iside et Osiride and Tr. de Animae Procreatione ex Timaeo Plato recognized in matter a certain maleficent soul or force, rebellious against God: it was an actual blemish, an obstacle to God's plans."
"For all we need do at present is to deny original sin and the immortality ofthe soul, or to ridicule some accepted opinion in the church, and to do so with a certain air, in orderto acquire among ordinary men the rare quality of being a freethinker."
"The vision seemed to me pleasing, and worthy of a follower of Origen: but we have no need of such hypothesis or fictions, where Wit plays a greater part than Revelation, and which even Reason cannot turn to account."
"It is cenain that the soul sees in itself, and without ideas, all the sensations and passions that affect it at the moment pleasure, pain, cold, heat, colors, sounds, odors, tastes, its love and hatred, its joy and sadness, and all the rest because none of the soul's sensations and passions represent anything resembling them outside the soul, and are but modifications of which a mind is capable."
"but man's allowing himself to be led by things which are external to himself, and to be by them"
"Through illumination and through a clear idea, the mind sees numbers, extension, and the essences of things."
"Superstitions persons, who know better how to rail at vice than how to teach virtue, and who strive not to guide men by reason, but"
"Elucidations of the Search after we have the glory of God in view, let us continue in it."
"He maintains that there are no such accidents distinct from the substance. '"
"The Search after point provided that you grant me what cannot be displlled, to wit, that you cannot see material things by themsel, es and without ideas."
"This seems clear enough, although the imagination might boggle at it and prejudice might be opposed to it."
"There is also no necessity to say of the motion of a ball which runs freely on an even, horizontal plane, with a certain degree of speed, termed, that this motion must have the properties of that motion which it would have if it were going with lesser speed in a boat, itself moving in the same direction with the residue of the speed, to ensure that the ball, seen from the bank, advance with the same degree."
"which are called sensible, make a more or less vivid impression on it."
"Thomas Aquinas had an inkling of these things when he said: ad prudentem gubernatorem pertinet, negligere aliquem defectum bonitatis in parte, ut faciat augmentum bonitatis in toto (Thom.,"
"It should be carefully noted that those who are regarded as the cleverest and most enlightened of men are those who have studied most (both good and bad books), who have a better memory, and whose imagination is livelier and of wider scope than others'."
"Both these points are disputed, and especially the damnation of these children."
"I shall not inquire a here how two minds can be united, or whether they can in this way eal their thoughts to each other."
"This so called demonstration is to be found in his Works and Bartholomaeus Keckermann, a writer renowned in the Reformed party, having made an attempt of just the same kind upon the same Mystery, has been no less censured for it by some modern theologians."
"He declares in his treatise on predestination that God had just causes for damning some men, but causes unknown to us."
"The question of physical evil that is, of the origin of sufferings, has difficulties in common with that of the origin of metaphysical evil examples whereof are furnished by the monstrosities and other apparent irregularities of the universe."
"Wherefore it is better to bear patiently the wrongs they may do us, and to strive to promote whatsoever serves to bring about harmony and friendship."
"In connexion with that I note that this young lady was a daughter of."
"Finally, in default of charity and love of order, it has been necessary for those who command others to have the art of deceiving them by an imaginary abasement that consists only in civilities and speech, in order that they might enjoy without being envied, that preeminence which is necessary in all bodies."
"A human being, of course."
"he goes to a city lying between two seas, resembling Corinth."
"Thus, the decision of the Council is clear, unequivocal, and without need of explanation."
"The two Protestant parties are tolerably in agreement when it is a question of making war on the Socinians; and as the philosophy of these sectaries is not of the most exact, in most cases the attack succeeded in reducing it."
"For, given that nothingness forms no idea in the mind"
"For it is certain that if one end of a tube exactly filled with water were pressed several times with the finger, the same thing would happen at the other end and the finger would be pushed back."
"In order to recognize our enor, it must be realized that the things we consider appear entirely evident to us only when the understanding has examined them from all sides and has examined all the relations necessary to judge them."
"It was my design to comprise in it all that, before I set myself to write it, I thought I knew of the nature of material objects."
"Very well, then: let us, once again, slacken its reins as far as possible then, before too long, a tug on them at the right moment will bring it more easily back to obedience."
"We may affirm the same thing of each part of each individual composing the human body; therefore, the knowledge of each part composing the human body is in God, in so far as he is affected by very many ideas of things, and not in so far as he has the idea of the human body only, in other words, the idea which constitutes the nature of the human mind."
"Thus the world will be brought into a strange confusion, by this means"
"There arc three reasons for this:"
"this is a truth between a thing and its idea."
"Reasonable men need therefore not allow themselves be persuaded that Descartes is a dangerous man because they have read this in some book, or because they have heard it said by some people whose piety they respect."
"Through these intersections we draw parallels to and to forming, , and so on, equal to All, Alii, and so fonh, and I.X,."
": now the mind necessarily contemplates itself, when it conceives a true or adequate idea."
"They did not dare punish the Apostles because of the people and because the man who had been miraculously healed was over forty years old and was present in the assembly; but they threatened them to prevent them from teaching in the name of Jesus."
"If these statements be compared with what we have pointed out concerning the strength of the emotions in this Part up to Prop. xviii."
"I would admit their point were I to argue as follows: one should attribute to a This reasoning is drawn andom Descancs dirations."
"If we carefully attach the thought of eternity, or some other solid thought, to the extraordinary motions excited in us, these violent and extraordinary motions will no longer occur without at the same time awakening the idea, and without, as a result, furnishing us with a defense against them."
"On the contrary, he sensed that this joy was a consequence of the perception of his perfections, and he sensed this always and without any effort on his part."
"I have withdrawn into seclusion and shall at last be able to devote myself seriously and without encumbrance to the task of destroying all my former opinions."
"Nevertheless, the School philosophers and the common man judge all sensible qualities of bodies only by the sensations that they receive from them."
"Before going any further, I wish to recall to mind what has been pointed out above namely, that whatsoever can be perceived by the infinite intellect as constituting the essence of substance, belongs altogether only to one substance: consequently, substance thinking and substance"
"I will first seek the cause of continuity, or what that unknown thing is which makes the parts of a hard body hold so tightly to each other"
"Of this they find excellent proof in the fact that we understand by body a definite quantity, so long, so broad, so deep, bounded by a certain shape, and it is the height of absurdity to predicate such a thing of God, a being absolutely infinite."
"One reasons in somewhat the same way when the question for consideration is somewhat thorny, as for instance when one asks oneself, quod vitae sectabor iter"
"It is clear that the literal sense of the passage is in no way contrary to what I have said up till now."
"We must observe the state of our imagination after eating and consider which things maintain and which dissipate the mind's attention."
"But we do not likewise perceive that we make use of our freedom in consenting to truth, especially when it appears altogether evident to us; and this makes us believe that consent to truth is not voluntaty."
"It is certain, and everyone knows this from experience, that when we want to think about some particular thing, we first glance over all beings and then apply ourselves to the consideration of the object we wish to think about."
"There are even some who deny that we can and should assert of a thing what is included in the clear and distinct idea we have of it; that nothingness has no properties; that a thing cannot be reduced to nothing without a miracle; that no body can move itself by its own forces; that an agitated body cannot communicate to bodies with which it collides more motion than it possesses, and other such things."
"In creating it, God gave it the faculty of thinking and it needs nothing more; but if it does need something, let us stick to what experience teaches us about our senses,.e., that they are the cause of our ideas."
"Although I say in this chapter that prevenient delight is the grace that Jesus Christ has particularly merited for us, and although I elsewhere absolutely call it the grace of Jesus Christ, this is not to say that there is any other actual grace besides this one, or that there is any grace that Jesus Christ has not merited for us."
"Thus, it should not be surprising that our senses lead us to excess, when reason and experience combine to ambush and corrupt them."
"For when we judge as we sense, we are always to some degree mistaken, though we are never mistaken in anything if we judge as we conceive, because the body informs only for the sake of the body, while God alone always teaches the truth, as I shall show elsewhere."
"The Search after together; as a result, they fall into error by approving them together, or into impiety by indiscriminately condemning them."
"cm tl truth without .ft'ar of' being mistakt."
"For the same reason (if it were valid) I could say: if it is written in the records of the Parcae that poison will kill me now or will do me harm, this will happen even though I were not to take this beverage; and if this is not written, it will not happen even though I should take this same beverage; consequently I shall be able to follow with impunity my inclination to take what is pleasing, however injurious it may be; the result of which reasoning is an obvious absurdity."
", one and the same action being sometimes good, sometimes bad;"
"As in this question, often posed by maidservants to children: I have seen, they say, hunters, or rather fishermen, who carried with them what they did not catch, and who threw what they did catch into the water."
"What we have just said about plants and their seeds can be said also of animals and the seeds from which they are produced."
"But the difficulty is great, above all, in relation to God's dispositions for the salvation of men."
"This has been fully borne out in my own experience during these last few days, when, considering all the beliefs I had once very firmly held as true, I decided, simply because I had realized that it was possible to doubt them in some respect, to suppose them to be altogether false."
"The assumption I made that subtle or ethereal matter is composed only of an infinity of small vortexes that tum on their center with extreme rapidity, and that counterbalance each other like the large vortexes"
"Bayle combats admirably the opinion of those who assert that goodness and justice depend solely upon the arbitrary choice of God; who suppose, moreover, that if God had been determined by the goodness of things themselves to act, he would be entirely subjected to necessity in his actions, a state incompatible with freedom."
"A small amount of gunpowder is capable, when lit, of lifting not only a load of a hundred pounds but a tower or even a mountain."
"But they are not happy because they suffer."
"valere ut possent aestimare saeculum, quomodo ejus Dominum non facilius invencrunt?"
"It is an immutable, eternal, and necessary law that they should know and love God as I have explained in the third article."
"As for spontaneity, it belongs to us in so far as we have within us the source of our actions, as Aristotle rightly conceived."
"Therefore, he who loves God, andc."
"It is known now that."
"In order to understand what might have been the nature of this exchange, it must be remembered that the connection between traces in the brain and the soul's ideas can occur in several ways, either according to nature or according to the will of men, or in some other way, as I have already explained in the second book."
"Each of the passions has two notable effects: it applies the mind, and wins over the heart."
"But if in fact no such idea is found in me, I shall certainly have no argument that can convince me with certainty of the existence of any thing distinct from myself; for I have examined all these things very closely, and up to now I have found no other such argument."
"Nevertheless some astute persons, who are pleased to make difficulties, revive them: they seek to increase our perplexity by uniting the controversies aroused by Christian theology to the disputes of philosophy."
"The perception of good and evil that excites the passions occurs in three ways: through the senses, through the imagination, and through the mind."
"what will be said about it could be said as well about pure intelligences and a fortiori about what we have here called pure understanding, for by the expression pure understanding, nothing is meant"
"But in order to conduct ourselves, it is absolutely necessary to know well"
"both fall into the precipice."
"As a result of this, the whole art of making the mind more extensive and more penetrating consists, as we shall explain elsewhere, in using its powers and its capacity sparingly, and not using it inappropriately on matters unnecessary for the discovery of the truth it is seeking and this is a point that should be well Book in the first part on melhod."
"How many questions are formed, which will never be resolved with regard to this and many other subjects involving the infinite, whose solution they seek in their own minds?"
"There is a man of wit who, pushing my principle of harmony even to arbitrary suppositions that I in no wise approve, has created for himself a theology"
"I have said already that theologians usually distinguish between what is above reason and what is against reason."
"They do not want to study themselves in order to recognize the weaknesses of their nature."
"In geometry everyone is convinced that nothing is written down, as a rule, without a rigorous demonstration, and so the unskilful more often err in approving what is false, since they want to be thought to understand it, than in challenging what is true."
"Majori animo,'' says he, speaking of the injury that had been done to Cato, non agnovit quam ignovisset."
"In this sense one may apply that fine adage of St. Bernard (Ep."
"Sin turned man away from God, to turn him towards creatures (lib."
"That leaves no distinction between natural right and positive right; there will no longer be anything unalterable or inevitable in morals; it will have been just as possible for God to command people to be vicious as to command them to be virtuous; and one will have no certainty that the moral laws will not one day be abrogated, as the ceremonial laws of the Jews were."
"Since human bodies are capable of the greatest number of activities, there is no doubt but"
"there is no such idea."
"While we remain unaware of this fact, we may easily mistake falsehood for truth."
"He who conceives, that an object of his hatred is painfully affected, will feel pleasure."
"Finally, when I am so obliging as to explain myself by means of some distinction, it suffices that the terms I employ have some meaning, as in the Mystery itself."
"In order to understand what I have said in several places, viz., that we do not explain things when we express them in terms from logic or by general ideas, it suffices to reflect that since everything that exists reduces to being or to modes of being, every term not signifying either of these things signifies nothing, and every term not signifying either of these things distinctly and in particular signifies nothing distinct."
"It is a thousand pities that."
", that would be a contradiction; but it is possible to produce some effect on the future."
"For if such a being did not exist it would never be produced; therefore the mind would be able to understand more than nature could furnish; and this has been shown above to be false."
"One may teach that God established good and evil by a positive law, or one may assert that there was something good and just before his decree, but that he is not required to conform to it, and that nothing prevents him from acting unjustly and from perhaps condemning innocence: but it all comes to the same thing, offering almost equal dishonour to God."
"Criminals who are executed are considered to expiate their crimes so completely by the loss of their life, that the public requires nothing more, and is indignant when executioners are clumsy."
"Yet the ce lcstial matter is everywhere equ ilibrium up to the surface of the sun."
": I shall explain their nature in my philosophy."
"He had separated these colors very precisely by means of various prisms, as can be seen in his excellent book."
"On the other hand, in philosophy, since it is believed that one can argue on both sides of any question, few search for the truth, and many more seek a reputation for intelligence on account of their daring to challenge the soundest views."
"But if after all these arguments someone still wishes to maintain that the will of an angel who moved a body would be a true and not an occasional cause, it is clear that this same angel could be the true cause of the creation and annihilation of all things."
"One must always yield to proofs, whether they be proposed in positive form or advanced in the shape of objections."
"Now nature in this sense teaches us to avoid those things that cause a sensation of pain, and pursue those that produce a sensation of pleasure, and so forth."
"No justice need trouble itself over the origin of a scoundrel's wickedness when it is only a question of punishing him: it is quite another matter when it is a question of prevention."
"Pedants cannot reason because they have narrow minds, or else their minds are filled with false learning; and they do not wish to reason, because they see that certain people respect and admire them more when they quote some unknown author and some sentence from one of the ancients than when they pretend to reason."
"Our mind, in so far as it knows itself and the body under the form of eternity, has to that extent necessarily a knowledge of God, and knows that it is in God, and is conceived through God."
"For if, for example, two individuals of entirely the same nature are united, they form a combination twice as powerful as either of them singly."
"For religion and wisdom teach me that He does nothing without His Son, without His Word, without His wisdom."
"I do not claim to explain by one example which mechanisms ressorts and relations"
"For the confused proofs that are based only on the deceiving testimony of the senses and imagination should not be accepted by those who make use of their reason."
"Whereas the wise man, in so far as he is regarded as such, is scarcely at all disturbed in spirit, but, being conscious of himself, and of God, and of things, by a certain eternal necessity, never ceases to be, but always possesses true acquiescence of his spirit."
"In other words, if there were only one idea in the mind, whether that idea were true or false, there would be no doubt or certainty present, only a certain sensation."
", in association with contempt, and can thence deduce other emotions, which are not distinguished one from another by any recognized name."
"so to restrain them that they would rather escape evil than love virtue, have no other aim but to make others as wretched as themselves; wherefore it is nothing wonderful, if they be generally troublesome and odious to their fellow men."
"But God has already given that satisfaction, as far as it is needed here on earth: by granting us the light of reason he has bestowed upon us the means whereby we may meet all difficulties."
"If I judge it exists, for the reason I am imagining it, or for any other reason, again, the same certainly applies."
"For the resistances, that is, the surfaces, increase by the square and the forces, that is, the contents or the volumes of the spheres of compressed air, increase by the cube of their diameters."
"Nevertheless, flour is nothing but crushed and ground wheat, just as a fire is nothing but divided and agitated wood, cinders only the heaviest wood divided without being agitated, and glass nothing but cinders of which every particle has been polished and rounded off a bit by the rubbing caused by fire, and so on with the other transmutations of bodies."
"that heat is in fire and colors in pictures, yet we see no clear and cenain reason compelling us to believe this; and thus we voluntarily submit to error through the misuse of our freedom when we freely form such judgments."
"For as the idea we have of men living in our century is not accompanied by an extraordinary motion affecting the mind, it naturally arouses nothing but scorn."
"Thus, the will of God, or the general law of nature, which is the true cause of the communication of motion, on certain occasions depended on the will of Adam."
"Another experiment to prol'e the relation between the opening of lenses and the amount of light."
"Bayle remarked upon this himself in his Dictionary in the article on 'Chrysippus', rem."
"Now this is clear to me, it would seem as foolish of me to say: 'I shall use my imagination, in order to recognize more clearly what I am', as it would be to say: 'Now I am awake, and I see something true; but because I cannot yet see it clearly enough, I shall do my best to get back to sleep again so that my dreams can show it to me more truly and more clearly.'"
"At nulla machinamenta posse n:periri, quae bene fundatum animum agitent."
"Hence the actual being of things, which are not modes of thought, does not follow from the divine nature, because that nature has prior knowledge of the things."
"while they would see certain others as having an enonnous bulk."
"And this punishment, far from being incompatible with the supremely good principle, of necessity emanates from that one of its attributes, I mean its justice, which is not less essential to it than its goodness."
"But I do not see why a thing cannot change its kind in relation to good or evil, without changing its degree."
"For if we find no flavor in wheat or in raw flesh, it is because our tongue has become insensible to those particles whose motion is more moderate."
"But yet we do quite frequently go astray even in things to which we are impelled by nature: as when sick people desire drink or food that will shortly do them harm."
"For we often judge that the objects of which we have ideas exist, and even that they are altogether like these ideas."
"Nevertheless, it seems to me that without this communication, women and animals could not easily bring forth young of the same species."
"They do not immediately see the use of these principles, which are too simple and easy to attract their attention for the time it takes to recognize their use and scope."
"Bayle (for it is easy to see that I speak of him)"
"For certainly, even if I were sleeping, if something is evident to my understanding, then it is altogether true."
"It is just the same with the formularies of belief: they would be valid"
"I have already said that insight must be joined to fervour, that the perfecting of our understanding must accomplish the perfecting of our will."
"This reality must be inquired into, if we are to find the best standard of truth (we have said that we ought to determine our thoughts by the given standard of a true idea, and that method is reflective knowledge), and to know the properties of our understanding."
"He was (so he says) an able man, of a methodical mind and of great assiduity."
"But he wrongly adds: 'Est autum fortuna; rerum igitur fortuitarum nulla praesensio est.'"
"One does not include among the disorders inequality of conditions, and."
"Therefore Mysteries may transcend it, but they cannot be contrary to it."
"Pliny cites the testimony of a certain Hermippus, an interpreter of Zoroaster's books, according to whom Zoroaster was a disciple in the art of magic to one named Azonacus; unless indeed this be a corruption of Oromases, of whom I shall speak presently, and whom Plato in the Alcibiades names as the father of Zoroaster."
"For the excellence of ideas, and the actual power of thinking are measured by the excellence of the object."
"But they do not all have the idea of a square when the hear the word square because this connection is entirely voluntary."
"Quomodo enim est contra naturam quod Dei fit voluntate:"
"But I could make no use of it at all, if there did not exist, either in me or in another being, some active faculty of producing or generating these ideas."
"The Search after Therefore, being presently delivered from the prejudices that led us to believe that our efforts are very powerful, and that those of the subtle matter that surrounds and compresses hard bodies are very weak, and being persuaded besides of the violent agitation of this matter in virtue of the things I said about gunpowder, it will not be difficult to see that it is absolutely necessary that this matter must be the cause of the hardness of bodies or of the resistance we feel when we try to break them apart."
"Dia/oflut'S on Met lphy.ric.f on Providence."
"For no given thing can be said to be more perfect, because it has passed a longer time in existence."
"Bayle distinguishes here do not exclude a third course, according to which the determination of the soul does not come solely from the co operation of all the causes distinct from the soul, but also from the state of the soul itself and its inclinations which mingle with the impressions of the senses, strengthening or weakening them."
"attacking the power of the Governor of Holland, which was at that time considered a danger to the Republic; for the memory of Prince William the Second's attempt upon the city of Amsterdam was still quite fresh."
"Ad, ice for bringing clrildren."
"In order to clarify and simplify the view I have just laid out concerning the way in which the mind perceives all the various objects of its knowledge, I must distinguish its four ways of knowing."
"it can be said that God never intended to make monsters; for it seems obvious that if God made only one animal, He would never have made it monstrous."
"Instead, it will be affected by an infinity of completely different sensations of which we now have no idea, and which will be beyond all sensation and will be worthy of the goodness and grandeur of the God we shall possess."
"Thus, we must not resort to any quality, fonn, or to any entity not clearly known to be capable of moving bodies, not even to some intelligence, for we do not know with certitude that intelligences are the ordinary causes of the natural motions of bodies, nor even if they can produce motion."
"Some people will be surprised that I cast doubt on things they thought indubitable."
"Those who speak only in well turned phrases and who carefully choose their words for effect are respected, for what they say appears to be marked by greatness."
"that every body is moved to the extent and in the direction it is most impelled, the tiny embryos gradually grow and develop."
"In this work combat several enors and especially those most universally received or those that cause a greater disorder of the mind, and show that these enors are almost all consequences of the mind's union with the body."
"But, in so far as the external body is an individual, which has no reference to the human body, the knowledge or idea thereof is in God."
"We must not be seduced by false appearances of piety, or be disheartened by the opposition of those who are ignorant of the mind animating them."
"But all things excellent are as difficult as they are rare."
"It is true that people seldom keep to the happy mean in works published to further party interests."
"One imagines a final end, a number that is infinite, or infinitely small; but that is all simple fiction."
"Sextus will say: No, Apollo, I will not do what you say."
"Before the Fall, the soul could erase the brain's images of bodily good that were too lively and make the sensible pleasure accompanying these images disappear."
"Thus it forms the idea of quantity absolutely, without reference to any other thoughts; but ideas of motion it only forms after taking into consideration the idea of quantity."
"For in the end, given that every natural impulse is an impression by the Author of nature, who acts only for Himself, and who can tum us only toward Himself, the true impulse of the soul is always essentially the love of good and only accidentally flight from evil."
"In fine, they so express themselves that many consider the opinion of Calvin, authorized by sundry confessions of faith from the Churches that have accepted his teaching, to be not so far removed from the Augsburg Confession as one might think: for he affirmed a partaking in the substance."
"I admit, however, that this power is not equal in all men, nor even in the same person at different times, as I have explained elsewhere."
"It is clear, in the third place, that to resolve questions of the third type, and to know some relation that approximates the exact relation between two or more things, it suffices to know the surfaces or sides according to which one should compare them approximately in order to find the approximate relation one seeks, whether of quantity or of quality."
"Every man, by the laws of his nature, necessarily desires or shrinks from that which he deems to be good or bad."
"Finally, it sometimes casts men into a blindness of despair, with the result that, confusedly regarding death as nothingness, they brutally huny towald their doom in order to be delivered from the mortal anxieties that agitate and frighten them."
"For they would make themselves ridiculous to everyone if they assumed ("
"Through the instinct of sensation, I am persuaded that my soul is joined to my body, or that my body is part of my being; I have no evidence for this."
"The memory is also strengthened without the aid of the understanding by means of the power wherewith the imagination or the sense called common, is affected by some particular physical object."
"But since I do not want to believe anything that I do not know, I must not let myself be defeated in this way by my own laziness, nor must I surrender to mere glimmerings"
"Third, to move the crystalline lens some distance from the retina and to provide the necessary space for the converging rays leaving it to converge exactly on the retina, He placed between it and the crystalline lens"
"Many persons saw him, and the late queen mother, upon visiting this hospital, was curious to see and even to touch the arms and legs of this young man where they were broken."
"Thus, the knowledge we have of other men is very liable to error if we judge them only by the sensations we have of ourselves."
"It is of importance to give his own words, in order sometimes to face him with his own objections and to bring him back to the fine sentiments that he had formerly pronounced: 'Chrysippus', he says (p., 'in his work on Providence examined amongst other questions this one:"
"For instance, when a man says that the lines drawn from the centre of a circle to its circumference are not equal, he then, at all events, assuredly attaches a meaning to the word circle different from that assigned by mathematicians."
"This would seem to be proved by the mutations or accidents that occur when the imagination of the mother is deranged and when some violent passion changes the natural disposition of her brain, for then, as has just been explained, this communication changes the conformation of the child's body, so that the mother sometimes aborts a fetus more similar to fruits she has desired, because the spirits fmd less resistance in the fibers of the child's body."
"For it is very difficult for me to retain names, and if I should live a long time I believe I shall forget my own name."
"For if in order to know the relations of things being compared exactly we must have clear and distinct ideas of them, then for the same reason, it is necessary to have sound knowledge of the intermediary ideas by which we claim to make comparisons, since the relation of the measure to each thing measured must be known distinctly in order to discover its relations."
"They must touch and feel themselves to be convinced of it, because this heat is natural."
"But we do not know through inner sensation that our will or effort produces our idea."
"Bayle in the second volume of his Reply to the Questions of a Provincial while disagreeing with some of the opinions that I have upheld here and appearing to resort sometimes to a despotic power, as if the will of God did not follow the rules of wisdom in relation to good or evil, but decreed arbitrarily that such and such a thing must be considered good or evil; and as if even the will of the creature, in so far as it is free, did not choose because the object appears good to him, but by a purely arbitrary determination, independent of the representation of the object; this bishop, I say, in other passages nevertheless says things which seem more in favour of my doctrine than of what appears contrary thereto in his own."
"Nor do I have any grounds for complaining that God has not given me a more powerful intellectual capacity, or a greater natural light, than he actually has, since it is of the essence of a finite intellect that it is unable to understand many things, and to be finite is of the essence of a created intellect."
"But the preceding experiment and several others that have been performed do not agree with this view."
"The Arminians also do not approve of it; they are not much in favour of these metaphysical subtleties."
"Our teachers are only prompters they too are but the occasional causes of the instruction that eternal wisdom gives us in the most secret recesses of our reason."
"noramuses, and we should not always judge their capacity and good sense by the things that they might say during their visits."
"They claim that these atmospheres, refracting the rays from objects, make them appear larger."
"The system which we know by experience teaches us that the determination of the movement of certain bodies changes in pursuance of our desires."
"since I realized how many false opinions I had accepted as true from childhood onwards, and that, whatever I had since built on such shaky foundations, could only be highly doubtful."
"or just said: that if in the known proponion of the times of the revolutions of planets to their distances from the sun we replace times their values, we shall find the same proportion as that preserving equilibrium in the celestrial layers of the vone;ces."
"When the point of a needle is pressed against the hand, the point separates and stimulates the fibers of the flesh."
"that in the seventh chapter of the second book I have given a sufficient demonstration of this communication through the use I make of it to explain the generation of monsters and certain natural fears and marks."
"However, such is my plan."
"After all, I think one must not reproach any"
"Thus, that which constitutes the reality of a true thought must be sought in the thought itself, and deduced from the nature of the understanding."
"The cause producing it should not be judged by the sensation."
"That is what I have tried to do, although I realize that I have executed it badly enough; and I admit my fault the more willingly, as the admission should move those who will read this to make themselves attentive through their own efforts, in order to improve it and in order to penetrate to the bottom of subjects that undoubtedly are worthy of such penetration."
"We feel and perceive no particular things, save bodies and modes of thought."
"Ad ipsam similitudiacm non omnia. sunt, sed sola ntia rational is; quare omnia per ipam, sed ad ipsam noa nisi anim mionlllis."
"Therefore, since the planets revolve with the same speed, or complete their revolution in the same time as the fluid that sunounds and transports them, we shall have tt:."
"Si utrumque tantundem diligimus, nihil horum dabimus."
"In this state they are even more meritorious, because given that men are rational, God wills to be loved by them with a freely chosen love rather than with an instinctive, unwilled love like that with which sensible goods are loved,.e."
"I am made to be happy; I cannot prevent myself from wishing to be happy."
"The first way enlightens the mind, it fortifies it, and augments its understanding."
"It draws conclusions for us from the assumptions we have made."
"I call hunger prompt me to take food, while a dryness in the throat prompts me to drink, and so on, I certainly could not explain except by saying that nature teaches me that it is so."
"Malum praesens minus, quod causa est faturi alicujus mali."
"The Search after did he add to his book in the last printing, and why did he never remove anything from it, if not because fortune favored his intensions?"
"According to this discovery, it is established that the chyle does not go immediately from the viscera to the liver through the mesaraic veins, as the ancients thought, but through the lacteal veins from the bowels, and thence into certain resevoirs where all these veins terminate."
"It would be impossible for human infirmity to follow up the series of particular mutable things, both on account their multitude, surpassing all calculation, and on account of the infinitely diverse circumstances surrounding one and the same thing, any one of which may be the cause of its existence or non existence."
"the .wn, earth, moon, and Jtar.f exi."
"By the pure understanding it even perceives material things, extension with its properties; for only pure understanding can perceive a perfect circle, a perfect square, a figure of a thousand sides, and similar things."
"The nature of ideas I shall explain in the third book."
"To say that God, having resolved to create man just as he is, could not but have required of him piety, sobriety, justice and chastity, because it is impossible that the disorders capable of overthrowing or disturbing his work can please him, that is to revert in effect to the common opinion."
"Dextrum Scylla latus, laevum implacata Charybdis Obsidet."
"What the Church teaches us is infinitely superior to the power of reason; what men teach us is subject to our reason."
"I myself have proved sufficiently clearly, at any rate in my own judgment (Coroll."
"All men agree that God is the one and only cause of all things, both of their essence and of their existence; that is, God is not only the cause of things in respect to their being made (secundum fieri), but also in respect to their being (secundum esse)."
"Very common examples of this communication of the imagination are found in children with regard to their fathers (and still more in daughters with regard to their mothers), servants to their masters, maids to their mistresses, students to their teachers, courtiers to kings, and generally all inferiors with regard to their superiors, provided, however, that the fathers, masters, and other superiors have some strength of imagination."
"The tail of the comet is intended by the smoke which will rise incessantly, according to the Apocalypse, and this fire will be hell, or the second death whereof Holy Scripture speaks."
"I say here that we have no ideas of our mysteries, as I have said elsewhere that we have no idea of our soul, because the idea we have of our soul is no clearer than the idea we have of our mysteries."
"But to communicate this efficacy to a man or an angel signifies nothing other than to will that when a man or an angel shall will this or that body to be moved it will actually be moved."
"Ecce jam potest notiorem Deum habere quam fratrem."
"Thus the simple notions, the necessary truths and the conclusive results of philosophy cannot be contrary to revelation."
"This negligence is a general defect of humanity, and one not to be laid to the charge of any particular person."
"It is not even aware of this look, though it is actually formed, unless a mirror is present or a friend tells it about it."
"He observes also that the Stoics derived a blasphemy from this principle, saying that evils must be endured with patience, or that they were necessary, not only to the well being and completeness of the universe, but also to the felicity, perfection and conservation of God, who directs it."
"But let them be silent if they will not examine anything."
"But let us pick out the livelier sensations that occupy the soul more."
"I therefore examine its structure, and notice two things among several others; first, that it is composed of fibers like other muscles; second, that it has two very considerable cavities."
"a The same reason that obliges us to take literally the passages from Scripture directly opposed to prejudice also permits us to think that the Fathers never had the express intention of maintaining the efficacy of secondary causes or the nature of Aristotle."
"If a man begins to hate that which he had loved, more of his appetites are put under restraint than if he had never loved it."
"To collect in this way the differences, the agreements, and the oppositions of things."
"Hence we understand that point which I touched on in xxxix."
"Only God knows everything and is ignorant of nothing, and there is a certain amount of ignorance in the most enlightened intelligences."
"Protestant theologians as well as those of the Roman confession admit the maxims which I have just laid down, when they handle the matter with attention; and all that is said against reason has no force save against a kind of counterfeit reason, corrupted and deluded by false appearances."
"it should not be concluded from what I have just said that the men of today had at the time of Adam."
"We must speak this way because God made bodies, and because He knew what He made even before anything was made."
"Nevertheless it implies no contradiction that God should will directly or permissively a thing not implying contradiction, and in this sense it is permitted to say that God can will it."
"and almost accuse him of infidelity."
"When a square tower', he says, 'from a distance appears to us round, our eyes testify very clearly not only that they perceive nothing square in this tower, but also that they discover there a round shape, incompatible with the square shape."
"Two ways of explaining how our senses are corrupted by sin."
"But whenever this preconceived opinion of God's supreme power occurs to me, I cannot help admitting, that, if indeed he wishes to, he can easily bring it about that I should be mistaken, even about matters that I think I intuit with the eye of the mind as evidently as possible."
"Let us suppose that some man is being insulted, or that because he has an imagination that is strong and lively or that is aroused by some circumstance such as sickness or a reaction to grief and sadness, he is sitting at home imagining that someone (who is not even thinking about him) is ready and willing to cause him harm."
"And it is indeed just as if one said that an invincible reason against a thesis was not a legitimate reason for rejecting it."
"If the human body is in no way affected by a given external body, then."
"But where are those who despise these goods in practice, and who spare the attention and worry to acquire them?"
"I will only add that what has just been indicated as a maxim is in fact the definition of the possible and the impossible ."
"and not from the Father of lights."
"Again, in so far as we attribute to them anything implying negation as term, end, infirmity, etc., we, to this extent, call them imperfect, because they do not affect our mind so much as the things which we call perfect, not because they have any intrinsic deficiency, or because Nature has blundered."
"It is well known that most people do not even think there is any judgment, true or false, in our sensations."
", when it does not bring about the acts to which the Author of nature has attached the representation of these ideas."
"It now remains for me to show what course is marked out for us by reason, which of the emotions are in harmony with the rules of human reason, and which of them are contrary thereto."
"it is composed; we shall not even be able to hypothesize any untrue action concerning such objects, for we shall be obliged to consider at the same time the causes and manner of such action."
"And just as it is a mark of disorder to affect the company and the conversation of impious people, so it is also the mark of a corrupted heart to find pleasure in reading evil books."
"But it seems to me, he continues, that I perceive your mind is agitated and heated."
"Since the sin of the first man, the mind constantly spreads itself externally; it forgets itself and Him who enlightens and penetrates it, and it lets itself be so seduced by its body and by those surrounding it that it imagines fmding in them its perfection and happiness."
"If, however, the clear ideas I just mentioned are not to be attached to the terms pure and perfect, others may be substituted in their place."
"Therefore my answer to this objection is that the representation of the senses, even when they do all that in them lies, is often contrary to the truth; but it is not the same with the faculty of reasoning, when it does its duty, since a strictly reasoned argument is nothing but a linking together of truths."
"For then the difficulty will be to know why it is that these tiny bonds do not obey an effort to bend a bar of iron."
"The Traiti de /'amour de Dieu, and the sequel, Lyon,."
"One must confess that."
"It is in the same sense that sometimes reason is contrasted with experience."
"By the term desire, then, I here mean all man's endeavours, impulses, appetites, and volitions, which vary according to each man's disposition, and are, therefore, not seldom opposed one to another, according as a man is drawn in different directions, and knows not where to turn."
"Let me therefore be pennitted after all of this to say that it is blindness, meanness of mind, and stupidity to surrender in this way to the authority of Aristotle, Plato, or any other philosopher, that it is a waste of time to read them when we have no other goal than to remember their opinions, and that it is a waste for those to whom these opinions are taught in this way."
"It seems to me beyond question that our souls do not occupy a space as vast as that between us and the fixed stars, even if it be agreed our souls are extended; thus, it is unreasonable to think lhat our souls are in the heavens when they see stars there."
"Everything in this world of which we have some knowledge is either a mind or a body, a property of a mind or a property of a body."
"that reason would not commend the monarch who, in order to chastise a rebel, condemned him and his descendants to have a tendency towards rebellion'."
"And although sense perceptions do not depend on my will, I thought that I should not therefore conclude that they derived from things distinct from myself, because perhaps there might be some faculty within me, although yet unknown to me, that produces them."
"If, therefore, we wish to investigate the first thing of all, it will be necessary to supply some foundation which may direct our thoughts thither."
"The free substance is self determining and that according to the motive of good perceived by the understanding, which inclines it without compelling it: and all the conditions of freedom are comprised in these few words."
"The same is true of our mind's union with our body."
"In short (for I do not want to repeat here what I have said elsewhere), it is evil because God now forbids it since it turns the mind away from Him, the mind that He created and preserves only for Himself."
"The decree to create is free: God is prompted to all good; the good, and even the best, inclines him to act; but it does not compel him, for his choice creates no impossibility in that which is distinct from the best; it causes no implication of contradiction in that which God refrains from doing."
"Final and most importantly by far, it would have been to make us indifferent to the Incarnation of Jesus Christ, which is certainly the first and greatest intention of Himb who let men become covered with sin in order to have mercy on them in Jesus Christ so that he who glorifies himself does so only in the Lord."
"For if we pushed the piston with The proof and con equcnccs of this will be ecn below."
"God created the World to his glory: his glory is not known (according to ze), if his mercy and his justice are not declared; for this cause simply by his grace he decreed for some men life eternal, and for others by a just judgement eternal damnation."
"that therein consists the fall of Lucifer."
"We do not presume to decide whether before his fall the first man was able to avoid having agreeable or disagreeable sensations when the principal part of his brain was set in motion by the use of sensible things."
"The physical co operation of God and of creatures with the will contributes also to the difficulties existing in regard to freedom."
"Of all intelligible or spiritual things, only God is in this way superior to the mind; it therefore follows that only God is, or can be, our true good."
"They have confessed to me, nevertheless, that one could not find fault with reason, understood in the sense which I gave to it."
"for that would amount to asking them to make innovations in theology."
"He who conceives that the object of his love is destroyed will feel pain; if he conceives that it is preserved he will feel pleasure."
"They are pleased by harsh and presumptuous opinions, they pretend to be freethinkers, and in this state they speak of things divine without respect and with a sort of anogance."
"But an emotion which springs from reason is necessarily referred to the common properties of things (see the def."
"For exaiiiple, it is no more difficult to create an angel than to produce it from a stone, because given that a stone is of a totally contrary kind of being, it can contribute nothing to the production of an angel."
"For example, the absence of either of them might be responsible for the disappearance of innumerable persons of his party from the army or cause grumbling among the soldiers and give rise to some great disturbance."
"Everyone knows that there is a God who must be served and adored, but who serves and adores Him without that grace which alone makes us relish and enjoy these duties?"
"We must learn His judgments and His anger, and not irritate Him through contempt for His laws and His Gospel."
"For, first of all, even granting it to be true that my knowledge cognitio is gradually increasing and that there are many things in me in potentiality that are not yet so in actuality, nothing of this is relevant to the idea of God, in which indeed there is absolutely no potentiality: for this very fact of gradual increase is an infallible index of imperfection."
"If we carefully consider all these things, we may find the explanation just given acceptable."
"The main reason why I wish those who read this book to do so as carefully as they can is that I wish to be taken to task for the enors that I may have committed in it, for I do not fancy myself to be infallible."
"The source of differences we attribute to objects: that these differences are in the soul."
"Bayle was one of those who believed that Father Malebranche in that way gave a wonderful solution.'"
"For he supposes that one can subscribe to their opinion, although he leaves all the difficulties in their entirety, because the other systems, albeit they put an end to some of the difficulties, cannot meet them all."
"Or (what is the same thing), since bodies are all the harder as they are the more solid and have fewer pores, the question now is to know how the parts of a column composed of a material that would not have a single pore can be strongly joined together and compose a very hard body, for it cannot be said that the parts of this column are held by tiny bonds, since, being supposedly without pores, they have no particular figures. ')"
"For when an object is at a reasonable distance, such as five or six hundred paces, more or less in proportion to its size, there See the last Elucidation."
"Augustus would have thought that he and Caesar were alluded to in these lines, which speak of a master given to a free state."
"Thus, the sparks must be much more brilliant in the air than in a vacuum; they must also last longer and have more force to ignite gun powder."
", and may remain obstinately fixed therein, thus rendering it incapable of being affected in a variety of other ways: therefore."
"will for this cause also be affected with pain,"
", I was convinced that I could not do better than follow in the meantime"
"Thus, all the volitions of minds are only occasional causes."
": for such persons make no distinction between the modifications of substances and the substances themselves, and are ignorant of the manner in which things are produced; hence they may attribute to substances the beginning which they observe in natural objects."
"We therefore admit something divine in all the bodies around us when we posit forms, faculties, qualities, virtues, or real beings capable of producing certain effects through the force of their nature; and thus we insensibly adopt the opinion of the pagans because of our respect for their philosophy."
"But let us take a look at the properties he is going to liberally bestow upon this entity of his own invention, for he will undoubtedly strip all other substances of their most essential properties in order to invest it with them."
"But whilst we are thus enjoying it, the stomach is filled and the body is otherwise disposed."
"When we love a thing similar to ourselves we endeavour, as far as we can, to bring about that it should love us in return."
"E.D. He who clearly and distinctly understands himself and his emotions loves God, and so much the more in proportion as he more understands himself and his emotions."
"It is true that in all times this power has been recognized as real and true by most men, but this certainly has been without proof I do not say without demonstrative proof, I say without proof capable of making any impression on an attentive mind."
"Yet I will suppose that we clearly see that God through an entirely indifferent will has established eternal laws and truths for all times and for all places, and that they are now immutable because of His decree."
"For, if one need speak only without proof, one could say that all bodies are naturally heavy, and that they make every effort to draw near to the center of the world as their place of rest; and one can maintain to the contrary that bodies are naturally light, that they all tend to rise toward the heavens, as toward the place of their greatest perfection."
"I do not maintain however, that there have been people ignorant of the fact that their mind was limited, and that it had little scope and capacity."
"Hence, one half being annihilated, it follows from this, according to the light of reason, that the other half no longer has any relation to it; but it does not follow that it no longer exists, since, its existence being different, it cannot be reduced to nothing by the annihilation of the other."
", that the idea is adequate and perfect in God, in so far as he constitutes the essence of our mind; consequently."
"Thus, since the mind can perceive a part of this intelligible extension that God contains, it surely can perceive in God all figures; for all finite intelligible extension is necessarily an intelligible figure, since figure is nothing but the boundary of extension."
"For while we are unable to meditate attentively without the help of the body in resisting the continuous efforts of the senses and the passions, which upset and dissipate our meditation (because we are now able to overcome the body only by means of the body), yet it is obvious that the body can neither enlighten the mind nor produce in it the light of understanding."
"But I do not guarantee it."
"He did not think that God was determined by his goodness and by his perfection (which this author treated as chimeras in relation to the universe), but by the necessity of his nature; just as the semicircle is bound to enclose only right angles, without either knowing or willing this."
"He immediately hates his enemy only because he loves the good, and his hatred is as great as his love is strong, because the impulse of his will in the passion of hatred is only an impulse of love, since the soul's impulse toward the good is not different from its impulse to flee the privation of good, as we have already said."
"Finally, in the Sixth the distinction is made between intellection and imagination; the distinctive features of each are described; it is proved that the mind is really distinct from the body; and yet so closely conjoined to it that it forms a single entity with it; a full list is given of all the errors that typically arise from the senses and the means by which these may be avoided are explained."
"I might have attributed to the senses the help we draw from geometry in preserving the mind's attention; but I thought that even though lines are sensible things, geometry belonged more to the imagination than to the senses."
"Now the Philosopher of Stagira supposes that there are two kinds of Act, the permanent act and the successive act."
"as it were, all the matter of which different bodies are composed."
"But for you to be able to judge soundly of my view, it is not enough to have presented it; some proof of it must be given."
"Strength of mind consists in a certain constitution of the volume and agitation of the animal spirits with the brain fibers; and sometimes women have the right The Search after constitution."
"arc a simple body distinl'l from the f(lur elements."
"Finally, I think that sense can be made of the way the mind knows certain abstract and general truths only through the presence of Him who can enlighten the mind in an infinity of different ways."
"But he also commits great errors, because he abandons himself to the passions, and because God abandons him to his own way."
"Therefore, one cannot see God without His existing; one cannot see the essence of an infinitely perfect being without seeing its existence; one cannot conceive it simply as a possible being; nothing limits it; nothing can represent it."
"as a necessary nmsequence of this."
"If anyone asks why I have not at the starting point set forth all the truths of nature in their due order, inasmuch as truth is self evident, I reply by warning him not to reject as false any paradoxes he may find here, but to take the trouble to reflect on the chain of reasoning by which they are supported; he will then be no longer in doubt that we have attained to the truth."
"These evils serve to make the elect imitators of their master, and to increase their happiness. '"
"the idea is prior in nature, and, when the idea is given, the other modes (namely, those of which the idea is prior in nature)"
"Such a society established with laws and the power of preserving itself is called a State, while those who live under its protection are called citizens."
"For he will never fail to do that which shall be the best, not only in general but also in particular, for those who have true confidence in him, that is, a confidence composed of true piety, a lively faith and fervent charity, by virtue of which we will, as far as in us lies, neglect nothing appertaining to our duty and his service."
"bSee this number above."
"Second, it is false that heat unites things of the same nature."
"he does not prove that his four elements exist, and he defines them badly; his elementary qualities are not as he claims, he does not know their nature, and the secondary qualities are not all composed of the elementary ones; finally, even if one grants him that all bodies are composed of the four elements, as the secondary qualities are from the primary, his whole system would be useless in the search for truth, since his ideas are not sufficiently clear to preserve the evidence in our reasoning."
"Man is himself the source of his evils: just as he is, he was in the divine idea."
"But I call it the grace of Jesus Christ in order to distinguish it from the grace God gave to the first man at his creation, which is ordinarily called the grace of the Creator."
"The passions corrupt not only the imagination and the mind in their favor, but they also produce in the rest of the body all the dispositions necessary for their preservation."
"Yet it often comes to pass also, though this perchance not the most often, That in the world's eyes Heaven is justified, and that one may say with Claudian:"
"But all true Cartesians make distinctions, for they try as best they can to remove ambiguity from terms."
"But as soon as two drops of blood have thus passed, one into each of the cavities, these drops which cannot but be very large, because the orifices through which they pass are wide, and the vessels from which they come full of blood, are immediately rarefied, and dilated by the heat they meet with."
", non ut ipsi nihil agant'"
"Part now pass on to explaining the results, which must necessarily follow from the essence of God, or of the eternal and infinite being; not, indeed, all of them (for we proved in Part., Prop."
"It is true nevertheless that."
"But nevertheless, when the things we consider are altogether evident, it seems to us that we no longer consent to them voluntarily."
"Further, this affirmation cannot be made."
", they exert all their efforts so that people will at least believe they truly possess them."
"All emotions can be referred to desire, pleasure, or pain, as their definitions, already given, show."
"Formatis igitur Dominus Deus de humo cunctis animantibus terrae and universis volatilibus coeli."
"Yet, as it is necessary that while we are endeavoring to attain our purpose, and bring the understanding into the right path we should carry on our life, we are compelled first of all to lay down certain rules of life as provisionally good, to wit the following:"
"Therefore, it is first necessary to perceive very clearly the unknown relation we are searching for there, since it is obvious that if we had no certain sign by which to recognize this unknown relation once found, the search for it would be vain."
", I abhor pain and evil, I want to be happy, and I am not mistaken in believing that all men, the angels, and even demons have these same inclinations."
"Whatsoever can destroy our body, cannot be postulated therein ."
"For, if I judge that the wax exists, for the reason that I see it, it is certainly much more evident that I myself also exist, from the very fact that I am seeing it."
"As there is nothing urgent, they have no cause to affect the imagination of others or to distract them from their occupations, which are perhaps more urgent than the causes of these passions."
"The union between the mind and sensible objects, or the strength and scope of the passions in general."
"He affirms, in the tenth, that the world is eternal because it cannot have begun to be and at the same time last forever, since we see that everything that is made is corrupted with time."
"God grants his sanction to this sequence only after having entered into all its detail, and thus pronounces nothing final as to those who shall be saved or damned without having pondered upon everything and compared it with other possible sequences."
"It is necessary to judge of their reality because we perceive it, and because nothingness cannot be perceived."
"There cannot exist in the universe two or more substances having the same nature or attribute."
"Even the majority of philosophers would prefer to invent some new entity rather than be silent about things of which they are ignorant."
"Neither are there any compound bodies, since compound bodies presuppose simple ones, which do not exist."
"But when the passions are more moderate, as is usually the case with wonder, their communication is imperceptible and they do not produce any expression, by means of which they are usually communicated."
"The same thing happens to those who perform long calculations, when they imagine that they clearly remember that they knew that nine times nine makes seventy two, or that twenty one is a prime number, or some similar error, on the basis of which they draw false conclusions."
"We should fear only what can do us some evil; this philosophy therefore sanctions only the fear of God and absolutely condemns all others."
"and they begin to doubt."
"the wish to turn in that direction, would be persuaded that it moved of itself to fulfil the desires which it conceived?"
"The rapidity of the motion of subtle matter is clearly proved by the effects of thunder, or rather by those of gunpowder."
"For truly, this philosopher teaches us not only things that can be known but also things that cannot be known, since he must be taken at his rd and"
"If virtue, or any other good at all, had been as appropriate as vice for the Creator's ends, vice would not have been given preference; it must therefore have been the only means that the Creator could have used; it was therefore employed purely of necessity."
"Bayle goes on: 'There are at the very least two ways whereby man can extricate himself from the snares of equipoise."
"Through the experience of what we perceive there, we instruct ourselves with complete certainty about all the inclinations of other men, and we have fairly certain knowledge of a large part of the passions to which they are subject."
"The present author declared there and then that he was of a different opinion, but that he was nevertheless well pleased that a man of such great genius had brought about an occasion for going deeply into these subjects, subjects as important as they are difficult."
"Now, the ray finds less resistance in glass and denser bodies than in air and water; the explanation I give of this can be seen in number of the preceding Elucidation."
"This declaration of."
"Everything the soul perceives belongs to either one of two sorts: either it is in the soul, or outside the soul."
"or that God is a mind or spirit as we concei, of minds."
"Descartes was justified in writing (vol."
"This is indisputably a true idea; and, although we know that no sphere in nature has ever actually been so formed, the perception remains true, and is the easiest manner of conceiving a sphere."
"we must love only God, because only God can act in our soul and because sensible objects can do no more than move our sense organs."
"The Search after posed only of the branches of the tracheal artery."
"they supposed it so and hardly thought about doubting it, or perhaps because they had no desire to give an explanation that would upset prejudice at a time when not as much effort was being made to eliminate it as now."
"These considerations should be set forth more precisely."
"That is more or less the error of the famous Alfonso, King of Castile, who was elected King of the Romans by certain Electors, and originated the astronomical tables that bear his name."
"In many instances it is clearly recognized that our sight deceives us concerning the motion of bodies."
"The Search after last chapter."
"It cannot be doubted that only God existed before the world was created and that He could not have produced it without knowledge or ideas; consequently."
"Again, it must be observed, that spiritual unhealthiness and misfortunes can generally be traced to excessive love for something which is subject to many variations, and which we can never become masters of."
"According to the teaching of countless writers of importance', he says, 'there is in nature and in the essence of certain things a moral good or evil that precedes the divine decree."
"Further, a thing is remembered more easily in proportion to its intelligibility; therefore we cannot help remember that which is extremely singular and sufficiently intelligible."
"What more can one wish, when one possesses a boundless wisdom and when one is as powerful as one is wise; when one can do all and when one has the best?."
"But it is not for the defender to adduce reasons; it is enough for him to answer those of his opponent."
"What we have just said about the cause of our enors with regard to good also reveals the falsity of the Stoics' and Epicureans' positions concerning the sovereign good."
"When, for example, one ball is said to have communicated some of its motion to another, the word is taken in its first sense; but if we simply say that a ball is seen to have great motion, it is taken in the second."
"The first was that everything I have ever believed"
"I have no fear of being mistaken when I claim that all men wish to be happy."
"Now the object of my wonder contains a sensible idea of greatness; I must therefore judge it according to this idea, for greatness must arouse my esteem and love."
"I will take care not to give my assent to anything false, or to allow this deceiver, however powerful and cunning he may be, to impose upon me in any way."
"The Search after Thus, the difference between Peripatetics and those we call Cartesians is not that the former believe animals have souls and the latter do not, but only that the former believe animals are capable of feeling pain and pleasure, of seeing colors, hearing sounds, and that they generally have all the sensations and passions we have, and that the Cartesians believe the opposite."
"Insofar as they are colored, objects are neither bad nor good for eating."
"or you can then construct this proportion."
"Therefore, a man will take most pleasure in contemplating himself, when he contemplates some quality which he denies to others."
"We perceive that a certain body is affected in many ways."
"Again, the motion and rest of a body must arise from another body, which has also been determined to a state of motion or rest by a third body, and absolutely everything which takes place in a body must spring from God, in so far as he is regarded as affected by some mode of extension, and not by some mode of thought."
"But as these spirits spread out into all the parts ofthe body, they gradually destroy everything capable of withstanding their flow."
"I. Substance is by nature prior to its modifications."
"all the attributes and propenies we distinctly conceive as included in the idea of matter are also left for with extension alone"
"This can be given a reasonable meaning."
"When I think this over more carefully I see so clearly that waking can never be distinguished from sleep by any conclusive indications that I am stupefied; and this very stupor comes close to persuading me that I am asleep after all."
"They overlook the fact that there is usually an ebb and flow in fortune, una marea as Italians playing basset are wont to call it."
"Saint Paul gives us a good example of this."
"Swammerdam, Father Malebranche,."
"If we wish to know precisely how long a body has been in motion when it is at a given point, we shall be able to tell from the lines drawn from this point parallel to or for the divisions of and indicate time."
", the knowledge of which has only reached us through revelation, and which indeed is the true cause of our miseries."
"Or, if it is easier to conceive, suppose that God created an earth infmitely more vast than the one we inhabit, such that this other earth would stand to ours as ours stood to the one we were just speaking about in the preceding supposition."
"So, even if God has foreseen that this communication of the mother's brain with her child's will sometimes make the fetus die and produce monsters because of the derangement of the mother's imagination, still this communication is so admirable, and so necessary for the reasons I have just given as well as for many others I could add, that God's knowledge should not have impeded the execution of His plan."
"He is an infinitely perfect being, and this we cannot doubt."
"I answer, as I have done already, that 'reason' here is the linking together of the truths that we know by the light of nature, and in this sense the axiom is true and without any ambiguity."
"If I know that the octave is two to one, it is because I have learned through experience that a given string sounds the octave when, having been plucked at full length, it is then plucked after having been divided into two equal parts."
", they do not force the blood into the arteries with the same strength."
"He worked for twenty two years at his Augustinus."
"But it is never separated from Jove; for if evil, which is its object, is taken as the privation of good, to flee evil is to flee the privation of good,.e., to tend toward the good, and thus aversion to the privation of good is the Jove of good."
"Than this remedy for the emotions (to return to the point from which I started), which consists in a true knowledge thereof, nothing more excellent, being within our power, can be devised."
"The mind's union with the body, on the contrary, infinitely debases man and is today the main cause of all his enon and miseries."
"Since this regularity springs only from the nature and necessity of things, without being directed by any cognition,."
"It is enough that we know that thought is the principle of all these modifications."
"Nevertheless it is true that there are among them some Supralapsarians and others who find it hard to declare themselves in clear terms upon the justice of God and the principles of piety and morals in man."
"Through various observations we can recognize the ties that bind us to each other, but we cannot know with any precision how this occurs."
"First, we do not now and never shall know precisely the particles of which the brain is composed (and still less their functions), or their different connections: on one side to the organs that receive impressions from objects, and on the other to all the parts of our body; second, our soul cannot exist without actually sensing itself; for these reasons, the soul has trouble in anributing to the construction of its body, which is actually unknown to it and which it does not consider, the effects that really depend on it."
"However, after I had reflected on the matter, I came in the first place to the conclusion that by abandoning the ordinary objects of pursuit, and betaking myself to a new quest, I should be leaving a good, uncertain by reason of its own nature, as may be gathered from what has been said, for the sake of a good not uncertain in its nature (for I sought for a fixed good), but only in the possibility of its attainment."
"But our undivided attention and sincere belief must be given to Him who speaks to the mind and whose instruction is so penetrating as to enlighten and fortify the inner man against the unceasing wiles and ill treatment of the outer man."
"I have spoken sufficiently on this point already. '"
"Yet, without having evil intentions inclined towards libertinism, one may envisage differently the strange consequences of an inevitable necessity, considering that it would destroy the freedom of the will, so essential to the morality of action:"
"In this fourth book I intend only to relate the errors of our inclinations to three main ones: our inclination for the good in general, self love, and love of our neighbor."
"That which we find in this crust of the globe appears to be the effect of some great upheavals."
"I perceived that if true happiness chanced to be placed in the former I should necessarily miss it; while if, on the other hand, it were not so placed, and I gave them my whole attention, I should equally fail."
"Know that you will be proud, that you will commit adulteries, that you will be a traitor to your country."
"I have also shown that therein is observed that excellent law of continuity, which I have perhaps been the first to state, and which is a kind of touchstone whose test the rules of."
"Thus, since evil is considered as the privation of good, to flee evil is to flee the privation of good,.e., to tend toward the good."
"little is known as it is worthy to be known,"
"but I perceive likewise that they are such and so numerous, that neither my hands nor my income, though it were a thousand times larger than it is, would be sufficient for them all;"
"But when we know things imperfectly and confusedly at the same time, which is most common, we never clearly know what we are seeking nor the means for finding it."
"I would not simply say, however, that it is because man, having the power to recover himself, does not; and would wish to add that it is because man does not take advantage of the succour of grace to aid him to recover himself."
"Furthermore, a great number of objects located in the sky and on earth can be seen from the same place or the same point; the species of all these objects would The Search after then have to be capable of being reduced to a point."
"For in philosophical matters, we must not believe anything till evidence obliges us to do so."
"For instance, certain Stoics heard, perhaps, the term soul, and also that the soul is immortal, yet imagined it only confusedly; they imaged, also, and understood that very subtle bodies penetrate all others, and are penetrated by none."
"I have called it sense when it receives from God ideas mixed with sensations.e."
"But even though one should grant to man this freedom wherewith he arrays himself to his own hurt, the conduct of God could not but provide matter for a criticism supported by the presumptuous ignorance of men, who would wish to exculpate themselves wholly or in part at the expense of God."
"The dejection, which is the opposite quality to this sort of pride, may be defined as pain arising from the false opinion, whereby a man may think himself inferior to his fellows."
"Rather than listening to the truth itself, they prefer to give ear to those philosophers who spell out nothing but their dreams and visions, and who assure them, like the false prophets, that the truth has spoken to them when in fact it has not spoken to them at all."
"Explanation Ambition is the desire, whereby all the emotions (cf. and xxxi.) are fostered and strengthened; therefore this emotion can with difficulty be overcome."
"Tire third rule of curiosity."
"But to imagine a right angle, we need not think about a circle divided in this way; the mere idea of a perpendicular allows the imagination to trace the image of this angle, and we find no difficulty in representing perpendiculars because we are accustomed to seeing things upright."
"it follows that the product of the first and fourth will be equal to the product of the second and third"
"I confess, that the theory which subjects all things to the will of an indifferent deity, and asserts that they are all dependent on his fiat, is less far from the truth than the theory of those, who maintain that God acts in all things with a view of promoting what is good."
"He answers that the chief design of Nature was not to make them sickly, that would not be in keeping with the cause of all good; but"
"unregenerate man is to be considered as dead; and I greatly approve the manner wherein the theologians of the Augsburg Confession declare themselves on this subject."
"For instance, when we look at the sun, we conceive that it is distant from us about two hundred feet; in this judgment we err, so long as we are in ignorance of its true distance; when its true distance is known, the error is removed, but not the imagination; or, in other words, the idea of the sun, which only explains tho nature of that luminary, in so far as the body is affected thereby: wherefore, though we know the real distance, we shall still nevertheless imagine the sun to be near us."
"And we are constrained to do so when we are obliged to speak of things of which we have no clear idea, and which we know only through the inner sensation we have of ourselves, as when we speak of the soul and its modifications."
"The cardinal appears to prefer even to the Kingdom of Heaven"
"and I will not perform an exercise that everyone usefully and easily can do."
", in so far as the mind imagines external bodies, it has not an adequate knowledge of them."
"Nevertheless, one can be assured that it is very necessary to know certain truths of metaphysics."
"I hope to remove all these difficulties."
"We should always avoid making it, according to the rule we laid down at the outset of this book: that we should never judge of anything at all when we can avoid doing so and when we are not constrained by evidence and certainty, as is the case here."
"It is indeed beyond question that we must refrain from preventing the sin of others when we cannot prevent their sin without sinning ourselves."
"I do not think that a Spinozist will say that all the romances one can imagine exist actually now, or have existed, or will still exist in some place in the universe."
"Thus, since magnet (d) approaches or draws away from (C) when it is presented with different poles, we must conclude that the tiny bodies emitted from magnet (C) pass freely and without repelling magnet (d) through side (a) while repelling it from side (b)."
", that bodies, for example, do not have the force to move themselves and that therefore their motor force is but the action of God, or in order not to use a term signifying nothing distinct, their motor force is but the will of God, always necessarily efficacious, which conserves them successively in different places."
"The effort for self preservation is nothing else but the essence of the thing in question."
"leaving the imagination tarnished and corrupt for some time; for injuries to the brain are not easily healed nor are its traces smoothed over."
"Even if we could know clearly the true measure of the distance passed through, it would not follow that we could likewise know the true magnitude of the motion."
"That would be true if the laws of motion for instance, and all the rest, had their source in a geometrical necessity of efficient causes; but in the last analysis one is obliged to resort to something depending upon final causes and upon what is fitting."
"That it is necessary to know the distance of objects in order to know the magnitude of their motion."
"It is therefore honoring the devil too much to tell stories as signs of his power, such as cenain new demonographers do, because these stories render the devil formidible to weak minds."
"As Aristotle often contradicts himself and as one can support nearly any kind of opinion by passages drawn from him, I have no doubt that one can establish by reference to Aristotle himself opinions contrary to those I have attributed to him."
"I therefore debated whether it would not be possible to arrive at the new principle, or at any rate at a certainty concerning its existence, without changing the conduct and usual plan of my life; with this end in view I made many efforts, in vain."
"From what has been said we clearly understand, wherein our salvation, or blessedness, or freedom, consists: namely, in the constant and eternal love towards God, or in God's love towards men."
"Su ly, if the mind could easily apply itselfto clear and distinct ideas, without being, as it we."
"It is evident therefore that he had just causes for the reprobation of some of mankind, but causes to us.'."
"Is there any that can be said to be separate from me?"
"In our own time the celebrated Mr. Hobbes supported this same opinion, that what does not happen is impossible."
"For the senses and the passions must be silent if one wishes to hear the word of truth, since removal from the world and scorn for all sensible things are as necessary for perfection of the mind as for conversion of the heart."
"Likewise concerning the origin of evil in its relation to God, I offer a vindication of his perfections that shall extol not less his holiness, his justice and his goodness than his greatness, his power and his independence."
"Michael and his angels fought against the Dragon, and the Dragon fought and his angels. '"
"Reply I reply that while nature remains as it is,.e., while the laws of the communication of motion remain the same, it is a contradiction that fire should not bum or separate the parts of certain bodies."
"Because of this such people sense what they should only imagine, and they think they see objects before their eyes, which are only in their imaginations."
"This proposition is evident from the definition of an individual prefixed to Lemma Note."
"So do they believe, all the more, that nothing can prevent divine Omnipotence from causing one body to be present in many bodies together, since the transition from immediate operation to presence is but slight, the one perhaps depending upon the other."
"Now, God consults only Himself and depends on nothing."
"The other type of equivocal terms used by philosophers includes all these general terms of logic with which it is easy to explain all things without having the slightest knowledge of them."
"But since that is not so it would follow, according to him, that contingent futurities have no determinate truth."
"How extravagant it is to confuse the greatness of courage with pride, and to separate patience from humility to join it with insufferable pride."
"Furthermore, we assigned to the second and third kinds of knowledge those ideas which are adequate; therefore these kinds are necessarily true."
"I understand all that which follows from the necessity of the nature of God, or of any of the attributes of God, that is, all the modes of the attributes of God, in so far as they are considered as things which are in God, and which without God cannot exist or be conceived."
"The union of soul and body."
"Hence we see that the question between the Supralapsarians and the Infralapsarians in part, and again between them and the Evangelicals, comes back to a right conception of the order that is in God's decrees."
"One may say concerning the explanations of Mysteries which are given out here"
"The impious undoubtedly must go to great lengths to find out whether their soul is mortal, as they think, or whether it is immortal, as faith and reason teach us."
"Thus, this third way has the same defect as the other two we have just discussed."
"God wills His glory, then, as His principal end and the preservation of His creatures only for His glory."
"For just as the soul's reflection on itself is necessarily accompanied by mental joy or sadness and then by sensible joy or sadness when in the performance of its duty and in its submission to God's commands it realizes that it is in its proper state, or when giving way to its passions it is affected by the remorse that informs it that it is in an improper state so the flow of spirits excited for the good of the body is accompanied by sensible joy or sadness and then by mental joy or sadness, depending on whether the flow of animal spirits is hindered or encouraged by the will."
"God produces miracles only when the order He always follows requires it; I mean the immutable order of justice that He wills to render to His attributes."
"It was because of this, says Saint Gregory, that he was so aware of the truth and so disposed to receive the divine lights contained in his Epistles,d which, however dazzling they may be, strike only those who, like him, mortify their senses and passions."
"They make this son of judgment because these sensations do not affect them much, as I showed while explaining the errors of the senses."
"If men were fully enlightened, universal approbation would be an argument, but just the opposite is the case."
"For he bears no resemblance to those false scholars who, usurping an unjustifieddomination over minds, want everyone to take them at their word, and who, instead of making men into disciples of internal truth by proposing only clear ideas to them, subject them to the authority of pagans and, through arguments they do not understand, force them into views they cannot comprehend."
"But finally, if this assumptionb is difficult to imagine, it now suffices for us to conceive of a balloon full of water, or rather of matter that is infinitely fluid and also extremely compressed."
"There are doubtless many more particular reasons that contribute to this."
"But when we run while looking at objects near us, we naturally judge that they are stationary,.e."
"Butts provided encouragement at crucial points and Robert."
"To this pleasure involved in love is added the pleasure arising from aid given to the endeavour to remove the pain involved in hatred."
"Unless I am mistaken, it is natural vanity, love of independence, and the desire to be like Him who contains in Himself all beings that confound the mind and lead us to fancy that Sec Arnauld's Du vrayes et ths faus#s idies (ch."
"But it must be noted that, when I say a greater or less force for existence than before, I do not mean that the mind compares the present with the past disposition of the body, but that the idea which constitutes the reality of an emotion affirms something of the body, which, in fact, involves more or less of reality than before."
"None of the things we have just explained concerning the passions in general are free; they are in us independently of us, and only the consent of our will depends wholly on us."
"; vacillation and doubt do not differ one from the other, except as greater differs from less."
"I therefore purposed to point out to him, that unless it be said that God forms organic bodies himself by a perpetual miracle, or that he has entrusted this care to intelligences whose power and knowledge are almost divine, we must hold the opinion that God preformed things in such sort that new organisms are only a mechanical consequence of a preceding organic constitution."
"It is as though the magnetic needle took pleasure in turning towards the north: for it would think that it was turning independently of any other cause, not being aware of the imperceptible movements of the magnetic matter."
"The sine for example, of the angle of incidence of the level ray will express the force of the pressure by which the row containing more vortexes compresses it."
"Thus, there is still one condition missing, which would remove all difficulty if it were expressed."
"this communication of the mother's animal spirits and brain with those of the infant seems to serve to regulate this growth, determining the particles used to nourish it to be arranged gradually in the same way as in the mother's body; which is to say, this communication of the spirits renders the child like its mother, or of the same species."
"The only impulse God gives to minds is for Himself."
"The second is that it cannot even know distinctly several things simultaneously."
"But, in fine, all these attempts to find reasons, where there is no need to adhere altogether to certain hypotheses, serve only to make clear to us that there are a thousand ways of justifying the conduct of God."
"But we must judge that the cause is in the brain, especially when the convulsions agitate not only one or two parts of the body in particular but nearly all of them, and again in several illnesses that change the natural constitution of blood and spirits."
"Yet if we add to the variability of the body's constitution the unsettled state generated by objects, which make quite different impressions on people from different occupations and ways of life."
"But if they are too bold, their pride makes them despise the authority of the church, and it is only with difficulty that they submit to it."
"We know the relation between a particular square and a particular triangle precisely, but we know the relation between Paris and Orleans only imperfectly."
"Let us come now to the possibility of things that do not happen, and I will give the very words of."
"For since man is made to know and love God, it was necessary that the perception of everything perfect should please them."
"But Spinoza, who was versed in the Cabala of the writers of his race, and who says Tractatus Politicus."
"Here is a description of the process."
"I have already spoken of the feudum Arimandiae"
"But here I shall rather direct my attention to the thoughts that spontaneously and by nature's prompting came to my mind beforehand, whenever I considered what I was."
"But this portion of reason which we possess is a gift of God, and consists in the natural light that has remained with us in the midst of corruption; thus it is in accordance with the whole, and it differs from that which is in God only as a drop of water differs from the ocean or rather as the finite from the infinite."
"These masters pressed the study of the Holy Scriptures and the practice of piety further than their fellows had been wont to do."
"Chapter Two I. Judgments and inferences."
"Rcctissimc dicitur.ctusad imqincm"
"This proposition is also evident from the manner in which (in Prop. xi.)"
"Yet I believe I can say that sin has not so disordered all the soul's faculties that we cannot, in certain cases, consult ourselves, and that it often happens that we lose the life of the soul or the body because we appeal to physicians who lack expertise in their art and who do not know our temperament sufficiently, or to spiritual directors who are ignorant in religion and morals, and who do not thoroughly examine consciences to discover the obligations and dispositions of those consulting them."
"For their mind's union with God and of their will with His,.e., with eternal law or the immutable order, is an immediate, direct, and necessary union, whereas the union they have with sensible objects, which is established only for the preservation of their health and life, gives them knowledge of these objects only in relation to this design."
"Therefore things could not have been brought into being by God in any other manner, andc."
"If a man had never eaten a melon, or seen red or blue, he would consult this alleged idea of his soul in vain and would never discover distinctly whether or not it was capable of these sensations or modifications."
"Bayle adds (ch., 'a Stoic philosopher, who attaches to everything an inevitable necessity, is as susceptible as another man to the pleasure of having chosen well."
"because the mind represents general ideas of subject and principle to itself as it pleases."
"gener.iiiY about man's loss of the power he had over his body."
"There are good passions and bad passions; there are good ones such as the desire to find truth, to be sufficiently enlightened so as to behave properly, to be helpful to one's neighbor, and so on; and there are evil or dangerous passions such as the desire for fame, for gaining a certain status, for rising above one's neighbors, and others even more inordinate that we need not mention."
"That has often made me say that I am not astonished men are sometimes sick, but that I am astonished they are sick so little and not always."
"Lastly, they are extremely prone to doubt everything, and they are completely opposite to those who have too great a facility for submitting to the authority of men."
"The fourth mode alone apprehends the adequate essence of a thing without danger of error."
"For ahhough we might love Him for having the power to make us happy, we do not love Him as sovereign justice, we do not love Him as He is."
"I agree that a peasant would be incapable of believing, for example, that the son of God was made man or that there are three persons in God a unless he had some idea of the Word's union with our humanity or some notion of a person."
"It is therefore certain from the Old and New Testaments that secondary causes have a true power to act."
"The point is not that, from my inability to think of a mountain except with a valley, it follows that a mountain and a valley exist somewhere, but only that the mountain and the valley, whether they exist or not, cannot be separated from each other."
"I have explained the union found between two slabs of marble that have been polished against each other, and it is easy to see that although subtle matter constantly passes between these two parts, as unified as they are, air cannot pass through; and thus it is the weight of the air that compresses and presses these two pieces of marble upon each other, causing us to have trouble disuniting them unless we slide them along one another."
"This everyone may make trial of for himself, by reflecting that he knows what Peter is, and also knows that he knows, and further knows that he knows that he knows, andc."
"For since I have now learned that bodies themselves are perceived not, strictly speaking, by the senses or by the imaginative faculty, but by the intellect alone, and that they are not perceived because they are touched or seen, but only because they are understood, I clearly realize cognosco that nothing can be perceived by me more easily or more clearly than my own mind."
"We have now perceived, that all the explanations commonly given of nature are mere modes of imagining, and do not indicate the true nature of anything, but only the constitution of the imagination; and, although they have names, as though they were entities, existing externally to the imagination, I call them entities imaginary rather than real; and, therefore, all arguments against us drawn from such abstractions are easily rebutted."
"Thus from the proposition that to do wrong to no man would be a good action, not in itself but by an arbitrary dispensation of God's will, it would follow that God could have given to man a law directly opposed at all points to the commandments of the Decalogue."
"faculties, occult qualities, and so on."
"But, as its force and increase is defined by the power of an external cause compared with our own .)"
", I should never err:"
"And yet this alone suffices to demonstrate that the soul is immortal, and that it cannot perish even should the body be annihilated."
"But if we conceive of an eye at, or elsewhere, turned toward a torch, the parts of the flame, which are in continuous motion, will, by very rapid vibrations or disturbances, constantly press the subtle matter from all sides more strongly than they do in the dark, and consequently, due to the plenum, they will press it as far as the fundus of the eye; the optic nerve, being more compressed than usual, and disturbed by vibrations, will excite in the soul a sensation of light or of bright and vivid whiteness."
"It would seem that there is no room left for doubt on this matter, except that it would apparently follow from what has just been said, that I can therefore never be mistaken at all."
"Now unless they rebound, the stone will remain in equilibrium with the ether, surrounding it."
"The ideas which we form as clear and distinct, seem to follow from the sole necessity of our nature, that they appear to depend absolutely on our sole power; with confused ideas the contrary is the case."
"The first and most important prerequisite to discovering the soul's immortality is to form a concept of the soul that is as clear as possible, and entirely distinct from any concept of the body."
"The body we see is an intelligible body and there are intelligible spaces between this intelligible body and the intelligible sun we see, just as there are material spaces between our body and the sun we look at."
"that is one of the results of my meditations."
"It is well to beware, moreover, lest in confusing substances with accidents, in depriving created substances of action, one fall into Spinozism, which is an exaggerated Cartesianism."
"I say that this distinction is not clear in the mouth of the ordinary man, who judges things through the impressions they make on his senses, for he does not know precisely what he means when he asserts that fire bums by its nature."
"We see that upward and downwani motions, which are not natural to some bodies."
"Instead they should have reckoned thai the pleasure experienced in sensible things cannot be in these things as their true cause, or in any other way, and consequently, that sensible goods cannot be goods with regard to our soul; they also should have considered the other things we have explained."
"On the seventh chapter of the second part of the third book, where I prove that we have no clear idea either of our soul's nature or of its modifications."
"Bayle thinks one can say almost as much of Jansenius himself."
"he sense explained in !"
"Yet I do not surmise that it is necessary to deny any of the things which we know, or which we see as appertaining to the immutability, the actuality, the certainty, the universality, etc., of God: but I think that there is here some secret, either in regard to the relation which exists between God and the event, or in respect of what connects the event itself with his prevision."
"They do not have the reputation or the external trappings of science that lead one into speaking without knowing what one is talking about; they are able to be silent."
"God lras no otlrer principal end for His action than Himself; and tlrey only impulse God es to minds is for Himself."
"The third cause of the connection of ideas and traces, which always assumes the two others, is the will of men."
"It is on account of the injustice there would be in the sufferings of beasts that divers Cartesians wished to prove that they are only machines,"
"Bayle acknowledges; and he ought to content himself with that, and not claim that one must put an end to the false appearances which are contrary thereto."
"To claim that a determination comes from a complete indifference absolutely indeterminate is to claim that it comes naturally from nothing."
"; on the other hand, the mind, in so far as it reasons, will not be able to conceive any good for itself, save such things as are conducive to understanding."
"Once, however, these latter have been discovered, they are counted as no less certain than the former."
"Whatsoever comes to pass in the object of any idea, the knowledge thereof is necessarily in God."
"But wise men try to defend themselves against the powerful charms of external manners."
"Cruelty or savageness is the desire, whereby a man is impelled to injure one whom we love or pity."
"But if by original grace or righteousness you mean certain unknown qualities like those with which God is said to have adorned the soul of the first man in order to make it pleasing in His eyes, it is also clear that the privation ofthis righteousness is not Original Sin, for strictly speaking, this privation is not transmitted."
"Bayle observes Reply to the Questions of a Provincial vol."
", He who includes all things the simplicity of His being, is present to it."
"In so far as men are assailed by emotions that are passions, they can be different in nature."
"Devotion is love towards one whom we admire."
"They get it from their first parents, who doubtless shared this view when they obeyed the demon, who tempted them with the promise that they would become like God; Eritis sicut Dii."
"Therefore neither can the idea of such a thing occur in God, in so far as he has the idea of our body."
"We shall move on to the mind by way of the heart only because the heart is its master."
"Consequently it is abundantly clear, that an absolutely infinite being must necessarily be defined as consisting in infinite attributes, each of which expresses a certain eternal and infinite essence."
"We must add, that a jealous man is not greeted by his beloved with the same joyful countenance as before, and this also gives him pain as a lover, as I will now show."
"Aristotle, judging things by the senses, imagines that cold is as positive as heat, because the sensations of heat and cold are both real and positive; and he also thinks that these two qualities are active."
"What conclusions have been reached?"
"After that, the following is roughly how he would reason, given that he assumed as an indubitable premise, that our sensations are in the objects of sense."
"that effort is required to separate them, and which causes them to be regarded not as being together but as a whole."
"And this body again can only have been set in motion or caused to rest by being determined by a third body to motion or rest."
"I am not yet half way through the nineteen maxims, and already I am weary of refuting, and making the same answer always."
"I. Judgments and inferences."
"Do not those who believe that the sun is immobile say to their servants, their friends, even to those who share their view, that the sun rises and sets?"
"For when the mind considers some being in particular, it moves not so much away from God as nearer Him (if one of His perfections may be spoken of as representative of this being) by moving away from all the others."
"They are doubtless not to be excused; but there always remains a great difficulty concerning God, since it rested with him to give them this same good will."
"As, therefore, those things are good which assist the various parts of the body, and enable them to perform their functions; and as pleasure consists in an increase of, or aid to, man's power, in so far as he is composed of mind and body; it follows that all those things which bring pleasure are good."
"All the details of the eye's construction must be careful noted in order to understand the explanations of it that will be seen in what follows."
"Between derision (which I have in Coroll."
"In the second place."
"Bona magna multis non amicus dat Deus, Insigniore ut rursus his privet malo."
"That may serve to shorten a great war or a rebellion, and would mean a saving of blood through the shedding of it: there is no decimation there."
"God, it is said, inasmuch as he is a supremely perfect being, cannot be passive; but extended substance, insofar as it is divisible, is passive."
"Nor am I free to think of God without existence"
", we can see its idea without seeing it; we can see in God that which represents it without its existing."
"si mente sobria fidei tantum dentur, quae fidei sunt."
"The main use of the leading block."
"But let us not be persuaded by his word, or by the compliments he gives himself, that this was a man of great sense and quite extraordinary penetration of mind."
"These stars always maintain the same distance between them, since they are the centers of vortexes, and they are not carried away so long as they resist other vortexes or remain stars."
"Bayle himself employed against the Cartesians' manner of proving freedom by the lively sense of our independence."
"The force whereby a man persists in existing is limited, and is infinitely surpassed by the power of external causes."
"I know that Sacred Scripture speaks of a certain wisdom it calls the wisdom of the age, the wisdom of men."
"That only God sees them in this way."
"If what I have just said is not enough to illustrate the difference between these two substances, one can read and meditate on some passages of Saint Augustine, such as chapter of the tenth book of The Trinity, chapten and of the Quantity of the Soul, or Descartes's Meditations, particularly the part concerned with the distinction between the soul and body, or finally, the sixth discourse from Cordemoy's Discernement de I' ame and du corps."
"Now, the reason we normally see a face in the moon, and not the irregular blotches that are there, is that our brain traces of a face are very deep, because we often look at faces, and with much attention."
"I say absolutely, not after his kind, as is usually stated."
"But because we cannot entirely leave the body before death, I admit that before death we cannot perfectly unite ourselves with God."
"But let us illustrate these truths with several examples."
"It cannot, however, be conceived as finite, unless it be limited by thought (by Def."
"For the product ofthe infinite and the infinitely small is a finite and constant magnitude, as is the soul's thinking capacity."
"it is the age of the world and its experience that make for the discovery of truth."
"On the contrary, the mission of Lazarus that he desired would have served to save many people; and he who takes so much pleasure in the damnation of others that he desires it for everyone will perhaps desire that damnation for some more than others; but, generally speaking, he will have no inclination to gain salvation for anyone."
"But because the subtle matter toward the center of the vortex has much more motion than it uses to rotate; because it communicates to the gross bodies it transports only its circular motion, common to all its parts; and because if the gross bodies had motion in addition to that which they have in common with the vortex, they would soon lose it by communicating it to the tiny bodies with which they collide."
"Let all this be granted."
"Those who are careful about them avoid grimacing or assuming an indecent air or posture easily enough, although the body be disposed to do so."
"What relation can be conceived between the idea of an enemy's fauks, or a passion of contempt or hatred, on the one hand, and the corporeal movement of the blood's pans striking against cenain parts of the brain on the other?"
"The Casuists also held to that idea: I count Grotius among the most eminent of them, and he was followed in this point by his commentators."
"Further, water, in so far as it is water, is produced and corrupted; but, in so far as it is substance, it is neither produced nor corrupted."
"The first are those who are inappropriately biased with regard to some author or some useless or false science."
"They err solely in the fact that they believe that their body is like the one"
"By this means the divine Wisdom distributes all the possibles it had already contemplated separately, into so many universal systems which it further compares the one with the other."
"The mind ceases to be when it no longer thinks about something; and if this idea were to vanish, it seems to me that my mind would vanish with it, or that it would become smaller and more confined if it attached itself to a smaller idea."
"for one cannot deny that there is in the world physical evil (that is, suffering) and moral evil (that is, crime) and even that physical evil is not always distributed here on earth according to the proportion of moral evil, as it seems that justice demands."
"Thought, therefore, is one of the infinite attributes of God, which express God's eternal and infinite essence (Pt.,"
"The Search after without knowing it; they desire nothing, fear nothing, know nothing; and if they act in a manner that demonstrates intelligence, it is because God, having made them in order to preserve them, made their bodies in such a way that they mechanically avoid what is capable of destroying them."
"But the minor cannot be accepted, for,"
"But these reasoners are, as I have said, easily confuted, for the perfection of things is to be reckoned only from their own nature and power; things are not more or less perfect, according as they delight or offend human senses, or according as they are serviceable or repugnant to mankind."
"Further, this idea or knowledge of the mind does not follow from God, in so far as he is infinite, but in so far as he is affected by another idea of an individual thing."
"and produce all the changes we see at different seasons:"
"Indeed, he does not have principles on the basis of which he founds his reasoning, and he has no order for making deductions from his principles."
"If, on the contrary, we take the bladder of a carp and put it in a vessel from which the air is drawn, then this bladder, being full of air, will burst and break because then there is no air outside the bladder to resist that inside."
"What necessity is there for one always to be aware how that which is done is done?"
"Concerning the free decision of the mind see note."
"God produces whatever is real in the mind's impulses and in the determinations of these impulses; nevertheless."
"The duration of things cannot be determined by their essence, for the essence of things involves no fixed and definite period of existence; but everything, whether it be more perfect or less perfect, will always be able to persist in existence with the same force"
"Further, fear arises from infirmity of spirit, and moreover belongs not to the exercise of reason: the same is true of compassion, though this latter seems to bear a certain resemblance to piety."
