"x"
"the harder he is to be reunited and restored again: and however the branch which, once cut of afterwards was graffed in, gardeners can tell you is not like that which sprouted together at first, and still continued in the unity of the body."
"The first and most necessary topic in philosophy is the practical application of principles, as, We ought not to lie the second"
"You must watch, you must labor, you must get the better of certain appetites, must quit your acquaintances, be despised by your servant, be laughed at by those you meet; come off worse than others in everything in offices, in honors, before tribunals."
"An instrument, a tool, an utensil, whatsoever it be, if it be fit for the purpose it was made for, it is as it should be though he perchance that made and fitted it, be out of sight and gone."
"But somewhat that is stronger than thyself doth hinder thee."
"anyone preferred before you at an entertainment, or in courtesies, or in confidential intercourse?"
"To live with the Gods."
"And who can hinder thee, but that thou mayest perform what is fitting?"
"But as for those which by the vulgar are esteemed good, if he shall hear them mentioned as good, he doth hearken for more."
"Remember that you are an actor in a drama of such sort as the Author chooses if short, then in a short one; if long, then in a long one."
"He an aposteme of the world, who by being discontented with those things that happen unto him in the world, doth as it were apostatise, and separate himself from common nature's rational administration."
"Thou must comfort thyself in the expectation of thy natural dissolution, and in the meantime not grieve at the delay; but rest contented in those two things."
"Green grapes, ripe grapes, dried grapes, or raisins: so many changes and mutations of one thing, not into that which was not absolutely, but rather so many several changes and mutations, not into that which hath no being at all, but into that which is not yet in being. '"
"Is your natural tie, then, to a good father?"
": for that is not right."
"For though but unreasonable, yet a kind of soul these had, and therefore was that natural desire of union more strong and intense in them, as in creatures of a more excellent nature, than either in plants, or stones, or trees."
"For be assured that if a person be ever so pure himself, yet, if his companion be corrupted, he who converses with him will be corrupted likewise."
"This is the course of the world."
"Let it not grieve thee then, if it be not thy fault that the thing is not performed. '"
"And in thy passions, take it presently to thy consideration, that to be angry is not the part of a man, but that to be meek and gentle, as it savours of more humanity, so of more manhood."
"This purple robe, but sheep's hairs, dyed with the blood of a shellfish."
"It is most needful that thou shouldst always remember this."
"If so be that the Gods have deliberated in particular of those things that should happen unto me, I must stand to their deliberation, as discrete and wise."
"There likewise thou seest the very self same things, and that age also is now over and ended."
"That which anything doth naturally incline unto, therein is his end."
"Stir up thy mind, and recall thy wits again from thy natural dreams, and visions, and when thou art perfectly awoken, and canst perceive that they were but dreams that troubled thee, as one newly awakened out of another kind of sleep look upon these worldly things with the same mind as thou didst upon those, that thou sawest in thy sleep."
"By little and little, if thou doest not better look to it, those sacred dogmata will be blotted out of thy mind."
"For notwithstanding that such a multitude of them is daily consumed, and as it were buried in the bodies of the eaters, yet is the same place and body able to contain them, by reason of their conversion, partly into blood, partly into air and fire."
"For this is your business to act well the given part, but to choose it belongs to another."
"These two rules, thou must have always in a readiness."
"which nevertheless a man may well doubt of, whether it were so or no, or, which above all the rest, if so be that it were true, a man would well consider of, whether commendable, or dis commendable."
"how much in regard of the universe may it be esteemed?"
"What art and profession soever thou hast learned, endeavour to affect it, and comfort thyself in it; and pass the remainder of thy life as one who from his whole heart commits himself and whatsoever belongs unto him, unto the gods: and as for men, carry not thyself either tyrannically or servilely towards any."
", be still at rest; that is, let her judge this,"
"Is it not a cruel thing to forbid men to affect those things, which they conceive to agree best with their own natures, and to tend most to their own proper good and behoof?"
"But he that saith, that my children might live!"
"Again, often meditate how swiftly all things that subsist, and all things that are done in the world, are carried away, and as it were conveyed out of sight: for both the substance themselves, we see as a flood, are in a continual flux; and"
"What then is it, that passeth verdict on them?"
"they that will live according to nature, must in those things (as being of the same mind and disposition that she is) be as equally indifferent."
"to man as he is a man."
"So is he, whosoever he be, that is either sorry, angry, or afraid, or for anything that either hath been, is, or shall be by his appointment, who is the Lord and Governor of the universe."
"How excellent useful are these lively fancies and representations of things, thus penetrating and passing through the objects, to make their true nature known and apparent!"
"As that thou also perchance dost think it a happiness either to be rich, or to live in pleasure, or to be praised and commended, and so of the rest in particular."
"But if thou beest carried away with the flood, it must be thy body perchance, or thy life, or some other thing that belongs unto them that is carried away: thy mind and understanding cannot."
"Women from fourteen years old are flattered by men with the title of mistresses."
"This, what is it in itself, and by itself, according to its proper constitution?"
"Their spring comes, and they are put forth."
"Those things that are his own, and in his own power, he himself takes order, for that they be good: and as for those that happen unto him, he believes them to be so."
", thou grow in time so"
"Remember that desire demands the attainment of that of which you are desirous; and aversion demands the avoidance of that to which you are averse; that he who fails of the object of his desires is disappointed; and he who incurs the object of his aversion is wretched."
"Neither did I leave the ordering of my body to the physicians altogether to do with me"
"what relation it hath:"
"Eighthly, how many things may and do oftentimes follow upon such fits of anger and grief; far more grievous in themselves, than those very things which we are so grieved or angry for."
"Seest thou not how it hath sub ordinated, and co ordinated?"
"He it was also that did put me in the first conceit and desire of an equal commonwealth, administered by justice and equality; and of a kingdom wherein should be regarded nothing more than the good and welfare of the subjects."
"If they can do nothing, why doest thou pray?"
"But if, by desiring to be useful to that, you lose these, how can you serve your country when you have become faithless and shameless?"
"Secondly, what manner of men they be, at board, and upon their beds, and so forth."
"From man is the seed, that once cast into the womb man"
"All things (saith he) are by certain order and appointment."
"the Stoics themselves, though they judge them not altogether incomprehensible, yet scarce and not without much difficulty, comprehensible, so that all assent of ours is fallible, for who is he that is infallible in his conclusions?"
"Is it not a grievous thing then, that thy reasonable part only should be disobedient, and should not endure to keep its place: yea though it be nothing enjoined that is contrary unto it, but that only which is according to its nature?"
"But consider well whether magnanimity rather, and true liberty, and true simplicity, and equanimity, and holiness; whether these be not most kind and natural?"
"If I can get them with the preservation of my own honor and fidelity and self respect, show me the way"
"Make it not any longer a matter of dispute or discourse, what are the signs and proprieties of a good man, but really and actually to be such."
"Avoid likewise an endeavor to excite laughter, for this may readily slide you into vulgarity, and, besides, may be apt to lower you in the esteem of your acquaintance."
"Let it always appear and be manifest unto thee that solitariness, and desert places, by many philosophers so much esteemed of and affected, are of themselves but thus and thus; and that all things are them to them that live in towns, and converse with others as they are the same nature everywhere to be seen and observed: to them that have retired themselves to the top of mountains, and to desert havens, or what other desert and inhabited places soever."
"Socrates said, 'What will you have?"
"But to me all portents are lucky if I will."
"is a mark of want of intellect to spend much time in things relating to the body, as to be immoderate in exercises, in eating and drinking, and in the discharge of other animal functions."
"Of all unreasonable creatures, there is but one unreasonable soul; and of all that are reasonable, but one reasonable soul, divided betwixt them all."
"That therefore which thou hast since received, not that which came from thy mother, is that which comes to change and corruption."
"To look back upon things of former ages, as upon the manifold changes and conversions of several monarchies and commonwealths."
"Now whatsoever is reasonable, is also sociable, Keep thyself to these rules, and trouble not thyself about idle things."
"And how should this be well brought to pass, but by certain theorems and doctrines;"
"The most compendious, is that which is according to nature: that is, in all both words and deeds, ever to follow that"
"For as these being by nature appointed for such an use, can challenge no more, than that they may work according to their natural constitution: so man being born to do good unto others whensoever he doth a real good unto any by helping them out of error; or though but in middle things, as in matter of wealth, life, preferment, and the like, doth help to further their desires he doth that for which he was made, and therefore can require no more."
"it is part, being of one kind and nature with it."
"Secondly, when in all its motions and resolutions it takes its level at the common good only, and that it desireth nothing, and flieth from nothing, bet what is in its own power to compass or avoid."
"It will steal away; look to it,' andc."
"How many astrologers, after that in great ostentation they had foretold the death of some others, how many philosophers after so many elaborate tracts and volumes concerning either mortality or immortality; how many brave captains and commanders, after the death and slaughter of so many; how many kings and tyrants, after they had with such horror and insolency abused their power upon men's lives, as though themselves had been immortal"
"Consider how quickly all things are dissolved and resolved: the bodies and substances themselves, into the matter and substance of the world: and their memories into the general age and time of the world."
"I have learned both shamefastness and manlike behaviour."
"which may be to me most profitable."
"Why then labour ye not for such?"
"and our souls nothing but an exhalation of blood?"
"For without all question, thou thyself art much in fault, if either of one that were of such a disposition, thou didst expect that he should be true unto thee: or when unto any thou didst a good turn, thou didst not there bound thy thoughts, as one that had obtained his end; nor didst not think that from the action itself thou hadst received a full reward of the good that thou hadst done."
"Dost thou not see, how even those that profess mechanic arts, though in some respect they be no better than mere idiots, yet they stick close to the course of their trade, neither can they find in their heart to decline from it: and is it not a grievous thing that an architect, or a physician shall respect the course and mysteries of their profession, more than a man the proper course and condition of his own nature, reason, which is common to him and to the Gods?."
"Is a little oil spilled or a little wine stolen?"
"and of those that have, those best that have rational souls?."
"All that I consist of, is either form or matter."
"so that thou mayst even come down to Philistio, Phoebus, and Origanion."
"Proceed now on to the rest that have been since that of Augustus."
"also, it is time thou"
"A man cannot any whither retire better than to his own soul; he especially who is beforehand provided of such things within, which whensoever he doth withdraw himself to look in, may presently afford unto him perfect ease and tranquillity."
"But I say; I want the food of good teaching, and instructions, and yet I depart not from reason."
"These reasonings have no logical connection: 'I am richer than you, therefore I am your superior.'"
"Doth the emerald become worse in itself, or more vile if it be not commended?"
"Run them over also, whom thou thyself, one after another, hast known in thy time to drop away."
"For this also is according to Nature."
"Not he only that committeth, but he also that omitteth something, is oftentimes unjust."
"A reasonable nature doth then speed, when first in matter of fancies and imaginations, it gives no consent to that which is either false uncertain."
"So then for the Gods, by the daily experience that I have of their power and providence towards myself and others, I know certainly that they are, and therefore worship them."
"Do not say that he does ill, but that he drinks a great deal."
"To find out, and set to thyself some certain way and method of contemplation, whereby thou mayest clearly discern and represent unto thyself, the mutual change of all things, the one into the other."
"However true goodness, simplicity, and kindness cannot so be hidden, but that as we have already said in the very eyes and countenance they will show themselves."
"But if this cannot be, yet it is some comfort for a man joyfully to depart as weary, and out of love with those; rather than to desire to live, and to continue long in those wicked courses."
"But above all things, how they are forced by their opinions that they hold, to do what they do; and even those things that they do, with what pride and self conceit they do them."
"As for me, this is my joy, if my understanding be right and sound, as neither averse from any man, nor refusing any of those things which as a man I am subject unto; if I can look upon all things in the world meekly and kindly; accept all things and carry myself towards everything according to to true worth of the thing itself."
"Of my grandfather Verus I have learned to be gentle and meek, and to refrain from all anger and passion."
"Now to conclude; upon all occasion of sorrow remember henceforth to make use of this dogma, that whatsoever it is that hath happened unto thee, is in very deed no such thing of itself, as a misfortune; but that to bear it generously, is certainly great happiness."
"And now I am content that the word expedient, should more generally be understood of those things which we otherwise call middle things, or things indifferent; as health, wealth, and the like."
"Whensoever thou wilt rejoice thyself, think and meditate upon those good parts and especial gifts, which thou hast observed in any of them that live with thee: as industry in one, in another modesty, in another bountifulness, in another some other thing."
"Rather assist me, then, to gain this character than require me to do those things by which I may lose it."
"But here contrariwise, man (if he make that good use of them that he should) is rather the better and the more praiseworthy for any of those kind of hindrances, than otherwise."
"Others again there be, who when they have done any such thing, do not so much as know what they have done; but are like unto the vine, which beareth her grapes, and when once she hath borne her own proper fruit, is contented and seeks for no further recompense."
"All substances come soon to their change, and either they shall be resolved by way of exhalation"
"And as for this, it proceeds from my neighbour, my kinsman, my fellow: through his ignorance indeed, because he knows not what is truly natural unto him: but I know it, and therefore carry myself towards him according to the natural law of fellowship; that is kindly, and justly."
"But on the other side thou must take heed, as much to flatter them, as to be angry with them: for both are equally uncharitable, and equally hurtful."
"But, behold, that how great and immense it is!"
"In this manner, therefore, if you accustom yourself to contemplate the relations of neighbor, citizen, commander, you can deduce from each the corresponding duties."
"It is high time for thee, to understand that there is somewhat in thee, better and more divine than either thy passions, or thy sensual appetites and affections."
"As I think Heraclitus in a place speaketh of them that sleep, that even they do work in their kind, and do confer to the general operations of the world."
"how many pains hast thou passed over with contempt?"
"And if we were to guard against this in every action, we should enter upon action more safely."
"You are unjust, then, and unreasonable if you are unwilling to pay the price for which these things are sold, and would have them for nothing."
"Then consider what's now become of all those things."
"(whose life both in regard of themselves, and them that they converse with, is nothing but mere mutability; or men of as fickle minds, as fickle bodies; ever changing and soon changed themselves) let it be thine"
"If at any time you would inure yourself by exercise to labor and privation, for your own sake and not for the public, do not attempt great feats; but when you are violently thirsty, just rinse your mouth with water, and tell nobody."
"But he that honours a reasonable soul in general, as it is reasonable and naturally sociable, doth little regard anything else: and above all things is careful to preserve his own, in the continual habit and exercise both of reason and sociableness: and thereby doth co operate with him, of whose nature he doth also participate; God."
"And what if the elements only."
"How couldst thou thyself use thy ordinary hot baths, should not the wood that heateth them first be changed?"
"Of the same nature is sickness and death; slander, and lying in wait, and whatsoever else ordinarily doth unto fools use to be occasion either of joy or sorrow."
"That which must be the subject of thy consideration, is either the matter itself, or the dogma, or the operation, or the true sense and signification."
"And then the course will be, from one period of eternity unto another, and so a perpetual eternity."
"Do all things as becometh the disciple of Antoninus Pius."
"To be cheerful, and to stand in no need, either of other men's help or attendance, or of that rest and tranquillity, which thou must be beholding to others for."
"He that is such, is he surely that doth not put off to lay hold on that which is best indeed, a very priest and minister of the gods, well acquainted and in good correspondence with him especially that is seated and placed within himself, as in a temple and sacrary: to whom also he keeps and preserves himself unspotted by pleasure, undaunted by pain; free from any manner of wrong, or contumely, by himself offered unto himself: not capable of any evil from others: a wrestler of the best sort, and for the highest prize, that he may not be cast down by any passion or affection of his own; deeply dyed and drenched in righteousness, embracing and accepting with his whole heart whatsoever"
"Take heed lest at any time thou stand so affected, though towards unnatural evil men, as ordinary men are commonly one towards another."
"For you have never entered upon anything considerately; nor after having surveyed and tested the whole matter, but carelessly, and with a halfway zeal."
"it is that thou art about, with true and unfeigned gravity, natural affection, freedom and justice: and as for all other cares, and imaginations, how thou mayest ease thy mind of them."
"If therefore all things else be common to these likewise, it follows, that for a man to like and embrace all things that happen and are destinated unto him, and not to trouble and molest that spirit which is seated in the temple of his own breast, with a multitude of vain fancies and imaginations, but to keep him propitious and to obey him as a god, never either speaking anything contrary to truth, or doing anything contrary to justice, is the only true property of a good man."
"That I lived under the government of my lord and father, who would take away from me all pride and vainglory, and reduce me to that conceit and opinion that it was not impossible for a prince to live in the court without a troop of guards and followers, extraordinary apparel, such and such torches and statues, and other like particulars of state and magnificence; but that a man may reduce and contract himself almost to the state of a private man, and yet for all that not to become the more base and remiss in those public matters and affairs, wherein power and authority is requisite."
"That which doth not hurt the city itself; cannot hurt any citizen."
"His soul is restless, fortune uncertain, and fame doubtful; to be brief, as a stream so are all things belonging to the body; as a dream, or as a smoke, so are all that belong unto the soul."
"Moreover I learned of him to write letters without any affectation, or curiosity; such as that was, which by him was written to my mother from Sinuessa: and to be easy and ready to be reconciled, and well pleased again with them that had offended me, as soon as any of them would be content to seek unto me again."
"If he have sinned, his is the harm, not mine."
"Not to lament with them, not to tremble, andc.'."
"What is the matter, or proper use?"
"And again, 'It will but little avail thee to storm and rage against the things themselves,' andc."
"But so observe all things in this kind, as that it be without any manner of affectation."
"This must thou use all thy life long, and upon all occasions: and then especially, when matters are apprehended as of great worth and respect, thy art and care must be to uncover them, and to behold their vileness, and to take away from them all those serious circumstances and expressions, under which they made so grave a show."
"And if any shall begin to gainsay thee, and quarrel with thee about it; wilt thou quarrel with him again, or rather go on meekly as thou hast begun, until thou hast numbered out every letter?"
"And truly, if either he that is ignorant that such a thing hath happened unto him, or he that is ambitious to be commended for his magnanimity, can be patient, and is not grieved:"
"Neither doth anything happen to any man, which in the ordinary course of nature as natural unto him doth not happen."
"Such one day shall be thy disposition, that thou shalt be able, both in regard of the Gods, and in regard of men, so to fit and order thy conversation, as neither to complain of them at any time, for anything that they do; nor to do anything thyself, for which thou mayest justly be condemned."
"How base and putrid, every common matter is!"
"She is also called truth and is the first cause of all truths."
"Not to be offended with other men's liberty of speech, and to apply myself unto philosophy."
"Or if that will not serve forsake even thy life rather."
"So a man as long as he doth that which is proper unto a man, his labour cannot be against nature; and if it be not against nature, then neither is it hurtful unto him."
"Thy speech is not right, man!"
"As a part hitherto thou hast had a particular subsistence: and now shalt thou"
"that there is nobody that can hinder thee, but that thou mayest always both do and speak those things which are agreeable to that nature, whereof thou art a part."
"so, for the same reason, think it no great matter to die rather many years after, than the very next day."
"How then shall he do those things?"
"And can death be terrible to him, to whom that only seems good, which in the ordinary course of nature is seasonable?"
"But as it fareth with them that die an easy quick death, whose soul is soon separated from their bodies, so must thy separation from them be."
"And when I find an interpreter, what remains is to make use of his instructions."
"They will not speak well of them that are at the same time with them, and live with them; yet they themselves are very ambitious, that they that shall follow, whom they have never seen, nor shall ever see, should speak well of them."
"they think with themselves nevertheless, that such a one is their debtor, and they know as their word is what they have done."
"His manner was, never to wonder at anything; never to be in haste, and yet never slow: nor to be perplexed, or dejected, or at any time unseemly, or excessively to laugh: nor to be angry, or suspicious, but ever ready to do good, and to forgive, and to speak truth; and all this, as one that seemed rather of himself to have been straight and right, than ever to have been rectified or redressed; neither was there any man that ever thought himself undervalued by him, or that could find in his heart, to think himself a better man than he."
"Also when the mind is grieved for anything that is happened by the divine providence, then doth it likewise forsake its own place."
"You have received the philosophic principles with which you ought to be conversant; and you have been conversant with them."
"Proceed therefore, and inquire further, whether it may not be that those things also which being mentioned upon the stage were merrily, and with great applause of the multitude, scoffed at with this jest, that they that possessed them had not in all the world of their own, (such was their affluence and plenty)"
"some fighting, some feasting, some merchandising, some tilling, some flattering, some boasting, some suspecting, some undermining,"
"For the motion of the mind to any injustice, or incontinency, or to sorrow, or to fear, is nothing else but a separation from nature."
"Afford then thyself this retiring continually, and thereby refresh and renew thyself."
"Now that solid and spiritual that we speak of, thou must not conceive it to be that very same,"
"As for life therefore, and death, honour and dishonour, labour and pleasure, riches and poverty, all these things happen unto men indeed, both good and bad, equally; but as things which of themselves are neither good nor bad; because of themselves, neither shameful nor praiseworthy."
"What portion soever, either of air or fire there be in thee, although by nature it tend upwards, submitting nevertheless to the ordinance of the universe, it abides here below in this mixed body."
", what is now come to pass."
"For this being the common privilege of all natures, that they contain nothing in themselves that is hurtful unto them; it cannot be that the nature of the universe (whose privilege beyond other particular natures, is, that she cannot against her will by any higher external cause be constrained,) should beget anything and cherish it in her bosom that should tend to her own hurt and prejudice."
"Hence is the first ground of justice."
"What is rvandnfLovia, or happiness: but andd wv, or, a good da rnon, or spirit?"
"The same are the world's elements, and the elements of which thou dost consist."
"Man, God, the world, every one in their kind, bear some fruits."
"If an absolute and unavoidable necessity, why doest thou resist?"
"I have lived; neither want I anything of that which properly did belong unto me.'"
"Doest not thou perceive, how many things there be, which notwithstanding any pretence of natural indisposition and unfitness, thou mightest have performed and exhibited, and yet still thou doest voluntarily continue drooping downwards?"
"Thou earnest indeed unto me according to thy ancient wonted manner."
"Be not deceived; for thou shalt never live to read thy moral commentaries, nor the acts of the famous Romans and Grecians; nor those excerpta from several books; all which thou hadst provided and laid up for thyself against thine old age."
"Begin therefore with little things."
"In all places, and at all times, it is in thy power religiously to embrace whatsoever by God's appointment is happened unto thee, and justly to converse with those men, whom thou hast to do with, and accurately to examine every fancy that presents itself, that nothing may slip and steal in, before thou hast rightly apprehended the true nature of it."
"Give what thou wilt, and take away what thou wilt, saith he that is well taught and truly modest, to Him that gives, and takes away."
"And lastly, when it willingly and gladly embraceth, whatsoever is dealt and appointed unto it by the common nature."
"Now this time or certain period, depends of the determination of nature: sometimes of particular nature, as when a man dieth old; but of nature in general, however; the parts whereof thus changing one after another, the whole world still continues fresh and new."
"Then secondly, that to those parts that are of the same kind and nature as thou art, thou hast relation of kindred."
"And when I did first apply myself to philosophy, that I did not fall into the hands of some sophists, or spent my time either in reading the manifold volumes of ordinary philosophers, nor in practising myself in the solution of arguments and fallacies, nor dwelt upon the studies of the meteors, and other natural curiosities."
"Thus must thou according to truth and nature, throughly consider how man's life is but for a very moment of time, and so depart meek and contented: even as if a ripe olive falling should praise the ground that bare her, and give thanks to the tree that begat her."
"Heraclitus having written so many natural tracts concerning the last and general conflagration of the world, died afterwards all filled with water within, and all bedaubed with dirt and dung without."
"So if ever there should be among the ignorant any discussion of principles, be for the most part silent."
"Take me and throw me where thou wilt: I am indifferent."
"and I am dead and gone; and all things are at end."
"Now that the world doth love it is true indeed"
"And as for these that keep such a life, and stand so much upon the praises, or dispraises of other men, hast thou forgotten what manner of men they be?"
"That I was not long brought up by the concubine of my father; that I preserved the flower of my youth."
"That I ever knew Apollonius and Rusticus, and Maximus."
"And how it is true that you will be nobody anywhere when you ought to be somebody in those things only which are within your own power, in which you may be of the greatest consequence? '"
"And the Gods themselves, in those things that they seek from them as matters of great moment, are well content, all manner of ways, as by dreams and oracles, to help them as well as others."
"mayst expect also when thy soul shall fall off from that outward coat or skin: wherein as a child in the belly it lieth involved and shut up."
"Where there shall neither roarer be, nor harlot.'"
"And as for the whole, it is preserved, as by the perpetual mutation and conversion of the simple elements one into another, so also by the mutation, and alteration of things mixed and compounded."
"only care and study, how to make a right use of all such accidents."
"if not that, then neither to be applauded by the tongues of men."
"is that of demonstrations as,"
"Hath anything happened unto thee?"
"which ministers unto it doth excel; the one being a rational substance, and a spirit, the other nothing but earth and blood."
"some Concerning the nature of the universe, and some Concerning the proper and particular constitution of man?"
"What doest thou desire?"
"That I never had to do with Benedicta and Theodotus, yea and afterwards when I fell into some fits of love, I was soon cured."
"One man therefore doth co operate after one sort, and another after another sort; but even he that doth murmur, and to his power doth resist and hinder; even he as much as any doth co operate."
"Fifthly, that whether they have sinned or no, thou doest not understand perfectly."
"Add not presently speaking unto thyself, What serve these things for in the world?"
"If it be so, upon condition that thou be kindly and lovingly disposed towards all men, thou mayest be gone."
"And that is all one as if a man should scratch and tear his own face, an object of compassion rather than of anger."
"They will accuse even virtue herself; with heinous and opprobrious words.'."
"And he that knoweth not what the world was made for, cannot possibly know either what are the qualities, or what is the nature of the world."
"Remember him also who was ignorant whither the way did lead, and how that reason being the thing by which all things in the world are administered, and which men are continually and most inwardly conversant with: yet is the thing, which ordinarily they are most in opposition with, and how those things which daily happen among them, cease not daily to be strange unto them, and that we should not either speak, or do anything as men in their sleep, by opinion and bare imagination: for then we think we speak and do, and that we must not be as children, who follow their father's example; for best reason alleging their bare successive tradition from our forefathers we have received it."
"For that a God should be an imprudent God, is a thing hard even to conceive: and why should they resolve to do me hurt?"
"But these words be ominous."
"For that lot and portion which is assigned to every one, as it is unavoidable and necessary, so is it always profitable."
"little puppets drawn up and down with wires and nerves: these be the objects of the world among all these thou must stand steadfast, meekly affected, and free from all manner of indignation; with this right ratiocination and apprehension; that as the worth is of those things which a man doth affect, so is in very deed every man's worth more or less."
"Meditate often upon the connection of all things in the world; and upon the mutual relation that they have one unto another."
"(if so be that all things shall be reunited into one substance), or as others maintain, they shall be scattered and dispersed."
"For surely they are led unto those sins whatsoever they be, as to their proper good and commodity."
"If you encounter a handsome person, you will find continence the faculty needed; if pain, then fortitude; if reviling, then patience."
"Is any man so foolish as to fear change, to which all things that once were not owe their being?"
"Come to divination as Socrates prescribed, in cases of which the whole consideration relates to the event, and in which no opportunities are afforded by reason or any other art to discover the matter in view."
"For he doth no better than strive and war against it, who contrary to his own nature applieth himself to that which is contrary to truth."
"Will either passengers, or patients, find fault and complain, either the one if they be well carried, or the others if well cured?"
"tomorrow perchance shall he die.'"
"For as he has the lettuces, so you have the obulus which you did not give."
"Let them behold and see a man, that is a man indeed, living according to the true nature of man."
"Well, preserve your own just relation toward him."
"Besides, it is but in one corner of this part of the world that thou art praised; and yet in this corner, thou hast not the joint praises of all men; no nor scarce of any one constantly."
"Nature hath of that also, as well as of eating and drinking, allowed thee a certain stint."
"For how shall even the most fierce and malicious that thou shalt conceive, be able to hold on against thee, if thou shalt still continue meek and loving unto him; and that even at that time, when he is about to do thee wrong, thou shalt be well disposed, and in good temper, with all meekness to teach him, and to instruct him better?"
"For indeed this latter may seem first to have been wronged, and so in some manner through grief thereof to have been forced to be angry, whereas he who through lust doth commit anything, did of himself merely resolve upon that action."
"that which after the generation of it shall be."
"Therefore, perceiving that they are regarded only as qualified to give men pleasure, they begin to adorn themselves, and in that to place all their hopes."
"shall come to pass With thine affections"
"Take pains therefore to know what it is that thy nature requireth, and let nothing else distract thee."
"Dost thou grieve that thou dost weigh"
"Therefore, at the same time that we lie, we are very ready to show how it is demonstrated that lying is wrong."
"And prudency itself, what more kind and amiable than it, when thou shalt truly consider with thyself, what it is through all the proper objects of thy rational intellectual faculty currently to go on without any fall or stumble?"
